                               1 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: Ireland's office market could cope with expected influx

BYLINE: Justin Comiskey

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 279 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Ireland is well-positioned from an office occupier perspective to benefit from some of the post-Brexit uncertainty, according to estate agent JLL which is expecting to see a "positive short-term bounce" in demand from occupiers.
But questions are being raised about Ireland's ability to absorb this increase in demand given our low office vacancy rates - now well-below European averages - and rising rents. 
JLL points out, however, that speculative office construction in Dublin has bounced back strongly with a "steady stream of new supply to come on to the market over the next five years". 
Hannah Dwyer, associate director and head of research at JLL, says that there are a number of new and refurbishment office schemes that will bring additional good quality stock to the market in the short-term. 
"In terms of new stock, almost 7.5 million sq ft of available space in Dublin is either under construction or has planning permission," says Ms Dwyer. 
"This represents almost 20 per cent of the existing total market size while 2.7 million sq ft of this will be delivered in the next three years, with the rest likely to be phased over the following two to three years." 
Ms Dwyer believes that there is "very limited risk of over-supply" in the office market provided that the strong demand, which has averaged 2 million sq ft per annum in the last 10 years, remains.
 "Dublin, therefore, has the capacity to welcome new occupiers into the city," she says. "Although there are limited large building options available in the next three to six months for immediate occupation, there will be an increase in supply from new and refurbished space towards the end of this year." 


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (89%); IRELAND (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               2 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Carney to release notes of Osborne conversations in 'phoney forecasts' dispute; Brexit warnings

BYLINE: Caroline Binham, Financial Regulation Correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 544 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The governor of the Bank of England has reluctantly agreed to release notes of private conversations between him and George Osborne, chancellor, that took place before the UK's vote to leave the EU , to a parliamentary committee for scrutiny.
The move comes amid a political spat over the BoE's warnings about Brexit with Mark Carney, who is fighting allegations from two former chancellors and ex-Conservative party leaders that the central bank tried to frighten the electorate off voting for Brexit by peddling "phoney forecasts" in a pre-determined strategy with Mr Osborne.
"If true, that's pretty much an end to Bank of England independence," said Andrew Tyrie, the Tory chairman of the Treasury committee, to which Mr Carney was giving evidence yesterday. "It could not be recovered by this governor and could not be regained by the bank for many years."
When asked whether notes of minutes of private meetings between Mr Carney and Mr Osborne could be made available to committee staffers for scrutiny to "allay public concern", Mr Carney said he did not want to limit "free-flowing" future conversations between chancellors and governors. But he conceded that he would allow the committee to scrutinise the notes privately.
Negotiations will now begin with the BoE over arrangements for reviewing the minutes, according to people briefed on the matter.
The BoE said last week that its prior warnings around the uncertainty of Brexit being the biggest risk to the UK's financial stability had begun to crystallise, and the outlook for financial stability was "challenging".
Mr Carney responded that the allegation - made in a letter written in June by Lords Lamont, Lawson and Howard, and Iain Duncan Smith - misunderstood how the BoE's independent Financial Policy Committee worked.
Andrea Leadsom - a key Brexiter who stepped down from the race to become the next prime minister - also had accused Mr Carney of speaking beyond his remit before the EU vote.
"I have discussions with the chancellor of the exchequer on a wider range of economic and financial matters. But the views of the FPC are the views of the FPC; they are not predetermined. They are based on robust discussions," Mr Carney told the committee. "I did not prejudge the lines of the FPC, and nor could I."
In an apparent swipe at the tenure of Lord Lamont, chancellor in 1992 when the UK quit the European Exchange Mechanism, Mr Carney added: "Things are different. We don't keep things under wraps. We identify risks and respond to them. We don't look to have exchange rate crises but exchange rate adjustments."
Donald Kohn, an external member of the FPC who also appeared at the committee hearing, added that all members of the FPC had agreed that uncertainty around Brexit was the UK's biggest threat to short-term financial stability.
Mr Carney was speaking after the BoE released minutes of the latest FPC meeting, which took place four days after the Brexit vote. It revealed that the UK markets watchdog warned the FPC about possible attempts by commercial property funds to trap investor cash when faced with a run of redemptions.
The warning was borne out: last week, seven funds took action to limit investor redemptions, with so-called gates imposed by funds.
FT Big Read page 7 See Markets


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               3 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Corporate bonds unfazed by Brexit; Analysis: Capital markets

BYLINE: Dan McCrum

SECTION: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 757 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For investors prepared to brave Britain's high street, senior bonds issued by New Look, the fashion retailer, offer an annual income of almost 9 per cent.
They come with some asset security but there may not be anything left in a bankruptcy when the lessors of New Look stores will be paid first and the £700m of bonds are considered subinvestment grade.
As such the yield reflects price that has tumbled since the UK voted to leave the EU, from 98 pence in the pound of face value to about 91p on Monday, a sign of a market wary of economic and political uncertainty.
Yet a perhaps surprising result for the market in European corporate bonds might be the way turmoil has been confined largely to the small market for sterling securities issued by weaker borrowers. Credit is measured by its spread, the income it offers over and above that of a government bond, and for investment-grade companies the spread has returned almost to pre-referendum levels.
One of the reasons may be that credit is increasingly considered risky enough to be interesting but not enough to frighten.
Credit funds in the US and Europe reported inflows last week.
Martin Horne, head of European high-yield investment for Babson Capital, says two large clients have since Brexit advocated their own investors move from stock markets into corporate bonds, where the mysteries of valuation and earnings multiples give way to more straightforward assessment of cash flow. "Unless that company goes out of business I am going to get paid," he says.
From the other side, safety does not pay very well any more . Government bond yields are well below zero in Germany, Switzerland and Japan, and close to record lows in the US.
David Riley, head of credit strategy for BlueBay Asset Management, says: "What we've seen in global credit markets and emerging markets since the Brexit vote is sensibly being treated as a local growth shock and a global rates shock."
The worldwide collapse in interest rates reflects an assumption central banks will take further measures to stimulate growth and inflation by cutting interest rates or expanding asset purchase programmes. Such buying pushes prices up and yields down to lower borrowing costs for governments businesses and individuals.
Corporate bond yields have fallen in response, with the Markit iBoxx index of investment-grade debt yielding just over 1 per cent, close to a record low.
The danger is oxymoronic risk, good news for economies is bad for bond prices if yields rise.
Mr Riley says: "There is just a lot of policy baked into rates and if that's not warranted it could easily have a spill-over into credit."
Indeed Alberto Gallo, manager of the Algebris macro credit fund, says: "You get to a point where some things are priced to perfection." Subinvestment grade bonds come with a higher risk of default, meaning a long process to fight for recovery of only part of an investors' capital. Yet in Europe some high-yield debt now yields less than 2 per cent, he says.
"The credit markets are a little bit complacent about UK risk."
In the UK market there has been some preference for safety over growth since the June 23 vote. Sterling debt issued by Imperial Tobacco Group, maturing in 2025 and rated BBB, has rallied 4 per cent, reflecting recession-proof demand for cigarettes and the international nature of the business.
A similar bond issued by Marks and Spencer, the retailer, has rebounded far less and still trades below pre-Brexit prices.
What may change that equation, however, could be a programme of direct bond buying by the Bank of England. The European Central Bank started to purchase corporate credit last month, EUR9bn worth, and some predict the UK could soon follow suit .
When the bank conducted a previous round of quantitative easing it allocated 1 per cent to credit, but analysts at Goldman Sachs see a larger programme in prospect, estimating £131bn of bonds could be eligible out of £436bn outstanding.
The question, however, remains the banks. Non-bank bonds have shrugged off concerns about the impact of very low rates on bank profitability that is behind tumbling share prices.
Over time economic growth has tended to be related to the investment returns from corporate bonds, and the extent of defaults. If banks struggle to lend, economic growth is likely to suffer.
Hans Lorenzen, credit strategist for Citi, says he cannot predict when the see-saw tips, but "what's apparent to us is that the tension between the technical created by the [ECB bond buying] and the bearish undertones is increasing".


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (57%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               4 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Crunch time for Europe's crisis manager; FT BIG READ: BREXIT AND BERLIN

BYLINE: Stefan Wagstyl

SECTION: ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2061 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For Angela Merkel, Brexit is a threat to everything she has achieved in more than a decade as the EU's dominant political force. But while her ministers, EU chiefs in Brussels and other European heads of government seethe, the German chancellor has kept her feelings to herself. The most pointed comment she has made since Britain's decision to leave the EU on June 23 is that the decision was "regrettable".
As understatements go it would be hard to beat. Ms Merkel, the 61-year-old habitually cautious EU veteran, is in fact preparing for the fight of her political life. Behind the one word "regrettable" lie multiple concerns - including the loss of a key liberal economic ally in the EU , the risk of further exits and the danger to her position in Europe.
"She faces a historic challenge . . . to hold Europe together. This is in Germany's interest and it is in Europe's interest too. No question, she is very worried," says Jürgen Falter, a professor of politics at Mainz University.
If Ms Merkel's fundamental aims are simple, the execution of them has been made more complex by Brexit, even for a methodical ex-scientist with years of practice in resolving crises. She must now work to keep the EU together, fight off rising populism and ensure that the UK stays as close as possible to the remaining 27 members, above all to Germany. And she must do all this while preparing for next year's German parliamentary elections, the first since Europe's refugee crisis dented her sky-high ratings.
Ms Merkel will have to juggle the conflicting interests of Britain - where a new government will have to clarify its intentions - the union and its fractious member states, while facing down rivals with competing visions of Europe's future, not least Jean-Claude Juncker, European Commission president, François Hollande, president of France, and Matteo Renzi, Italian premier. "Merkel's mastery [of the EU] will be weaker," says Josef Janning, head of the Berlin office of the European Council on Foreign Relations. "Brexit will add more divisions and more controversies."
Blame game 
For a leader accustomed to dealing with crises - the global financial upheaval, the Greek debt disaster, the Ukraine conflict and now the refugee emergency - Brexit is a challenge of a different order. "We think that we 27 [states] can overcome the situation. But we have no illusions that this is a qualitatively different task," she said at the end of a sombre gathering of EU leaders a few days after the referendum.
Her legacy is at stake. As a child of the former East Germany, she would hate to see new continental divisions. And as heir to former chancellor Helmut Kohl, the driving force of post-cold war European reunification, she would be loath to see the EU break up on her watch.
After 11 years in power her dominance of Germany and the EU is under threat. At home, support for the conservative bloc of the Christian Democratic Union and Christian Social Union has fallen from 41 per cent in the 2013 election to around 33 per cent. The anti-immigration Alternative for Germany has grown into the bloc's first significant rightwing challenger since the second world war. In the EU, the welcome she gave last year to more than 1m refugees won little support from fellow member states. Some feel bullied by German demands to take in migrants - and have forced her to back down on proposals for an EU-wide redistribution of refugees. Worse, to reduce the refugee inflows she has had to swallow her pride and cut a deal with Turkey.
She is widely accused of stirring the hornet's nest of migration politics . Alexander Lambsdorff, the liberal vice-president of the European Parliament, is among those blaming Brexit partly on Ms Merkel's refugee policy. "That some people should now portray her as Europe's rescuer is absurd - Brexit is also her responsibility."
Crucially, whereas Berlin imposed solutions in the global and Greece financial crises, and led the way over Ukraine, the scale of the refugee problem has turned Ms Merkel into a supplicant, asking favours from other member states - and being rebuffed by countries as small as Hungary. "She has lost her influence within the [European] Council," says one EU leader. "She has become the demandeur ."
Mr Juncker has sensed the shift. The conservative Luxembourger has irritated Ms Merkel ever since he got Brussels' top job in 2014 against her will by winning grass roots support from conservative EU parties, including the CDU/CSU. Fending off calls for his resignation in the wake of the Brexit vote, and denying he was "tired or sick", he has gone on the attack, seeking to exploit the chancellor's weakness and shore up Brussels' powers.
In contrast to Ms Merkel, he is pressing for a quick start to Britain's departure negotiations, seeking to squeeze London and shorten the period of uncertainty. He worries that delays could encourage other sceptical EU members to exit - with calls for referendums made by both Dutch rightwinger Geert Wilders and Marine Le Pen, leader of France's National Front, ahead of elections in the next 12 months.
Together with Martin Schulz, the German social democrat and president of the European Parliament, Mr Juncker argues for EU institutions to play a key role in reshaping the post-Brexit union.
Of more concern to Ms Merkel is his push to dilute eurozone austerity policies. In May, Mr Juncker suggested that France - which is expected to fail to meet its budget targets this year - should get special favours "because it's France". He further risked Ms Merkel's ire by defending his approach in the days after the UK vote, saying: "As a commission, we have put an end to blind unilateralism that demanded that austerity alone would be our response to economic, financial and social crisis."
The commission chief especially annoyed Berlin by proposing immediately after the referendum that Brussels alone should approve a controversial EU trade deal with Canada, without recourse to national parliaments. Amid uproar from German parliamentarians, furious at what they saw as a power grab, Mr Juncker has backed down.
In one key respect Ms Merkel believes time may be on her side - the Brexit vote has shocked many Europeans into rallying around the political status quo. YouGov opinion polls carried out in EU states after the referendum showed increases in support for continued membership in Germany and in three previously Eurosceptic states: Finland, Sweden and Denmark.
"In every country there will be people who will make the EU a scapegoat for all kinds of domestic problems or fears," says Manuel Sarrazin, the German Green party's Europe spokesman. "But there are also majorities - bigger than in the UK - that see the benefits of the EU, especially after Brexit."
A different vision 
In contrast to the Juncker/Schulz federalist vision, Ms Merkel emphasises the role of member states. Wolfgang Schäuble, her combative finance minister, has warned the commission to do its job better or face losing power to national capitals. "This is not the time for visions," he told Die Welt newspaper. "If the commission does not work with us, then we ourselves will take things in hand."
Ms Merkel is afraid that discussion of wide-ranging reform plans could open the way for populists to advance radical ideas. She also wants to avoid alienating the eastern member states.
On austerity the chancellor may give a little ground. Mr Juncker is backed by centre-left leaders, headed by Mr Hollande, Mr Renzi and German Social Democratic chief Sigmar Gabriel, a minister in Ms Merkel's coalition. She has talked since the Brexit vote about addressing youth unemployment - a key issue in southern Europe and France, where the youth jobless rate is close to 25 per cent.
Sandro Gozi, Italy's secretary of state for EU affairs, says: "We need a constructive role from Germany also on the economic front and we see there is still a lot of work to do."
Ironically Brexit could weaken Berlin's economic hand. London has long been an ally in pushing for liberal markets, with minimal government interference, in the face of France, Italy and others arguing for a bigger state role. "After Brexit, I think there will be more compromises with France and Italy on the economic front," says one CDU MP.
The next test could be Italy's bid to secure EU approval for a rescue of its debt-laden banks , in the face of strict state aid rules agreed in 2013. Ms Merkel has rebuffed Mr Renzi's request, arguing that the regulations cannot be changed "every two years".
But Mr Renzi is fighting for a compromise and suggesting that even Germany might yet need a bank rescue . Last week he claimed that Italian banks' problems were smaller than those of other eurozone "big banks" with derivatives positions. He did not name any institution but was widely thought to have been talking of Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest, whose shares have fallen by 60 per cent in the past year and trade near all-time lows.
No need to be 'nasty' 
With regard to Brexit, Ms Merkel wants anything but the Juncker-backed rapid start to talks . Even when they begin, Ms Merkel says there is no reason to be "particularly nasty" to the UK. She worries that misguided pressure would only increase the economic costs to Britain and its partners, especially Germany.
German business interests are close to Ms Merkel's heart, especially ahead of national elections. The economy is doing well, with wages rising, unemployment falling and consumption growing, but companies fear the turmoil in the UK; the Dax stock index is down 5 per cent since the referendum.
"Brexit permanently damages the German economy," says Eric Schweitzer, president of DIHK, the German chambers of commerce. "It is working as a dampener on conditions."
Britain is Germany's third-largest market, after the US and France, taking 7.5 per cent of its exports. For some industries it is much higher: the UK accounts for 12.5 per cent of sales for its influential carmakers. Markus Kerber, managing director of the BDI employers' association, says: "We should not talk about punishing people [in tough negotiations] if we don't know that we might be punished ourselves."
Moreover, Berlin fears the loss of Britain's wider role in the EU. Along with France, it brings to the EU worldwide intelligence services, a permanent seat on the UN Security Council and a rare capacity to project military power. Nato officials , gathered in Warsaw for a summit last weekend, say little of this will change. Also, as the UK was never an enthusiastic backer of EU defence co-operation, they say its departure may make it easier for the remaining 27 members to pursue initiatives opposed by London, such as a joint army.
The EU's broader strategic role could, however, be undermined, notably in relation to Russia , where the UK has backed Ms Merkel's hard line on economic sanctions over Ukraine. ECFR's Mr Janning says: "Russia wants to exploit Brexit as much as possible."
Over the longer run Brexit could strengthen Germany's grip on Europe and with it fears of Berlin's dominance. In the short term, however, the problem is not Germany's strength but the EU's collective weakness. The Brexit process will consume huge political and bureaucratic resources, leaving fewer available for other crises such as refugees, Italian banks or Greece.
However demanding the European questions will be, Ms Merkel will devote more energy to the domestic agenda - and next year's elections. Analysts say it is too soon to say whether Brexit will boost the populist vote, as the AfD hopes, or whether the prospect of a struggling UK will frighten conservative Germans into sticking with Ms Merkel.
"Whatever happens," says a leading CDU MP, "Brexit must not damage our election campaign for next year. She wants to campaign on her record of managing crises in Europe." In the last election that record was self-evident. With the full fallout from Brexit yet to be realised that is no longer the case.
Additional reporting by Alex Barker, James Politi and Henry Foy
Speed read
Slow exit  Merkel fears undue pressure would only increase the costs to Britain and its partners, especially Germany
'Her responsibility'  Some European politicians blame Brexit partly on the chancellor's open-door refugee policy
Union rebound  The Brexit vote may have shocked many Europeans into rallying around the political status quo


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); DE Germany; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               5 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Developer 'getting out of UK' to invest (EURO)400m here; Brexit causing UK 'immense problems' says Ziggurat chief

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 459 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Ronald Quinlan Commercial Property Editor THE head of UK-based student accommodation developer Ziggurat has said his company is "getting out of the UK completely and investing all our money in Ireland".
Speaking to the Irish Independent, Ziggurat founder and managing director Matthew McAdden said while the decision of the British electorate to vote in favour of Brexit was causing "immense problems" for the UK, he did not see any adverse impact for the Irish economy which he described as "very, very strong".
He said: "We genuinely don't see an [adverse] impact of the 'leave' [Brexit] vote in the UK which is causing us immense problems in the UK.
"We are getting out of the UK completely and investing all our money into Ireland. We just don't see an impact of the 'leave' vote on the economy of Ireland. If anything, it might be of benefit."
The Ziggurat chief confirmed his company's plans to invest around (EURO)400m in 4,000 new student units in Dublin, Cork and Galway.
The UK developer is already well known in the Irish marketplace having acquired and converted the former Montrose Hotel opposite UCD's Belfield campus in Dublin to student accommodation.
According to McAdden, the Montrose property is already near full occupancy with "just a handful of rooms left". This is despite the fact that the average cost per room has increased since last year to (EURO)256 per week. Ziggurat has now acquired sites on Dublin's Upper Dominic Street and on the North Circular Road where it plans to build facilities capable of housing 380 and 420 students respectively.
The location of the developments will see demand from students attending the DIT campus at Grangegorman.
Owing to the close proximity of the Luas, students attending Trinity College may also be interested in securing accommodation there.
The sites in question include the former Michael H textile plant acquired from Small Firms Association chairman AJ Noonan and two former Arnotts car park sites controlled by developer Noel Smyth.
Subject to planning, Ziggurat expects to have the proposed 800 Dublin student rooms ready for occupation in 2019.
The company has also acquired a site on Cork's Western Road close to UCC for a 200-bed facility and intends to build up to 1,000 student rooms in both Cork and Galway over the next three years.
Referring to the opportunities presented by the Irish market, McAdden said: "We're enthused by it. Dublin is very exciting, but so is Cork.
"There are 25,000 students at UCC and it's an internationally-recognised university and NUIG (Galway) has 18,000 to 20,000 students and is also internationally-recognised."
He added: "The real economy in Ireland is very, very strong. People continue to have the confidence to rent properties to go to university."


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (90%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               6 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: France faces Brexit blow, warns IMF

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 363 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The French economy is likely to take a hit from Britain's vote to leave the European Union, the International Monetary Fund warned yesterday as it revised down its growth forecasts for the country.
Lower economic growth in the UK would dampen demand for French imports, while business investment growth was likely to slow down as a result of the "heightened uncertainty and financial market volatility" resulting from the Brexit vote, the IMF said in its annual review of the French economy.
Although France's recovery was "solidifying", fresh risks had emerged from the Brexit vote, it said, as it cut its outlook for GDP growth for next year to 1.25 per cent from 1.5 per cent, but left its forecast for 2016 at 1.5 per cent.
"The risks to the outlook are now firmly on the downside, with much higher uncertainty around financial conditions and political developments in Europe," the IMF said.
The downbeat assessment comes as commentators warn that even a modest slowdown in 2017 could make it harder for President Hollande to get reelected if he decides to run next year. The IMF renewed calls for France to bring down unemployment and public debt. It praised efforts by Myriam El Khomri, the labour minister, to allow a working week longer than 35 hours.
However, the fund said that it expected the impact of the Brexit vote on the American economy to be "modest". In its US annual review, it said that the biggest risk to GDP would be a general "sustained rise in global risk aversion" that could lower bond yields as investors piled into US treasuries and add to the strengthening of the dollar.
Yesterday it noted that the rise in the dollar after the Brexit result had been less than feared, while stock markets had recovered losses sustained in the immediate aftermath. "The net effect on growth is pretty negligible," Nigel Chalk, the IMF's mission chief for the US, said.
Noting that the US economy went through a "temporary dip" even before the Brexit vote, the IMF said that risks to growth were now "tilted to the downside". It cut its US 2016 growth forecast to 2.2 per cent, from 2.6 per cent in April. Next year it expects growth of 2.5 per cent, down from 2.6 per cent.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               7 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: He's our world-beater - - Brexit call for Dunne; TROON DIARY

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 101 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: GREYSTONES members take great delight in Paul Dunne's growing fame as a golfer but they would not be impressed to hear him being claimed as English.
Such was the case yesterday at Justin Rose's media conference.
This is the question that was put to him: "Justin, you were part of an English revolution group of players with yourself, Lee Westwood, Paul Casey, David Howell who came through.
"Are you delighted to see a new generation following your footsteps with Tyrrell Hatton, and Paul Dunne, and these young British players who look like they can challenge the world?" Roll on Brexit. Leave our golfers alone.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               8 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: ITE Group; Post-Brexit boost

BYLINE: FastFT

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 124 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ITE Group, the Russia-focused exhibition and conference organiser whose profits have plummeted as Russia and central Asia's economies have convulsed, has enjoyed a boost from the post-Brexit shake-out in the UK economy.
For ITE Group, which earns its revenues overseas, the 14 per cent fall in sterling against the dollar has helped pump up the relative value of ITE's earnings. "If the recent weakness in sterling continues, we would expect this to have a positive influence on future results," the company said.
It said in the three months to June "the weaker biennial pattern and the weakness of our trading currencies, especially the rouble" took a bite out of revenues, driving them down to £46m from £58m in the same period last year. FastFT


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CENTRAL ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); ASIA (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); RU Russia; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; QC Former USSR; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               9 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Look Out, Mrs May; Post-Brexit Britain can pay for itself only through trade and investment

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 558 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May will enter No 10 this evening having already inherited the prime ministerial Jaguar and outlined her economic strategy. This was a strikingly centrist, almost leftist platform, reminiscent of Ed Miliband. If she sticks to it in government she may appeal to voters whom Conservatives have traditionally found hard to reach, but it will come at a price. She risks betraying free marketeers on both sides of the Brexit debate within her party. Worse, she risks depressing growth and discouraging investment in Britain just when it urgently needs both.
While Mrs May is making the transition from campaign mode to the real world, the governor of the Bank of England is already there. Yesterday he dropped fresh hints that a return to quantitative easing is likely to cushion the economy in the event of a post-Brexit downturn. He has already given a clear indication that an interest rate cut is on the way.
In Birmingham on Monday Mrs May fired a shot across the governor's bows. "Super-low interest rates and quantitative easing has helped those on the property ladder at the expense of those who can't afford to own their own home," she said. She should focus on using cheap money to fund housebuilding and to help those on low incomes to buy their own homes. But she is right that the "haves" have benefited disproportionately from the cheap credit used to rescue the economy since the 2008 crash. Income inequality is worse than ever in Britain as a result. Five years ago chief executives of FTSE 100 companies earned on average 83 times their employees' wages. That figure has since risen to 130.
Earnings are no more unequal in this country than in other big European economies, and less so that in America or Canada. But the earnings gulf between boardroom and shopfloor is unrecognisable compared with the 1970s. In addressing it so early Mrs May is drawing attention to her grasp of what life is like for "ordinary working people" and to her background as the state-educated daughter of a vicar. She is entitled to draw distinctions between herself and her predecessor. She is wise to reach for the political centre ground too, but she must know that no one has made the poor richer by making the rich poorer.
Top executives are too often rewarded for failure thanks to cosy relationships with their remuneration committees. Their bulging packages give capitalism a bad name. Mrs May is entitled to scold the private sector for such excess but she should think carefully before wading into the City with heavy-handed legislation.
Her plans to put employees on corporate boards look similar to those in Germany, where worker representatives and board members talk past each other to little avail. Her proposal to make shareholder recommendations on executive pay binding could deter foreign investors hoping to find in post-Brexit Britain a faith in free markets that they cannot find elsewhere in Europe.
Mrs May admitted that her prospectus amounts to "a different kind of conservatism". She had already torn up George Osborne's commitment to deficit reduction. On Thursday she hinted at a strong preference for statism over Margaret Thatcher's rugged individualism. If these are truly her instincts they will clash with the outwardlooking vision of Britain she should be espousing. It is the only one that will be able to pay its way.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               10 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 7:42 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Pro-leave economists urge May to embrace unilateral free trade; Economists for Brexit say a complete exit from the EU's single market would offer 'substantial benefits of flexibility'

BYLINE: Phillip Inman Economics correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 734 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May's new government should reject concerns that leaving the European single market will damage Britain's economic prospects and embrace unilateral free trade to boost exports, according to a group of economic analysts.
                     The Economists for Brexit group, which campaigned for Britain to leave the European Union, said a unilateral free trade deal would allow the UK to import cheaper goods and gain access to new markets, delivering greater prosperity. 
The plea came as departing prime minister David Cameron said every effort should be made to stay inside the EU's single market, to retain existing trading links with the continent.
                     Most economists have argued Brexit will damage the economy. Business leaders and remain campaigners have also urged May to seek a deal with Brussels that lowers tariff barriers while meeting the concerns of voters who want to restrict EU migrants from working in the UK.
Brexit economist Gerard Lyons, who advised former London mayor Boris Johnson, said: "We need to ensure we send a clear message and vision of a global Britain - and this is possible with a points-based migration system, returning sovereignty to Westminster but being outside the single market. An EU-lite policy would not be the best policy economically and is likely to disappoint the electorate."
The group attacked dire predictions for the UK economy in the Treasury's economic report on Brexit, which it said was "grossly exaggerated". Prof Patrick Minford, co-chair of Economists for Brexit, accused Bank of England governor Mark Carney and chancellor George Osborne of issuing unjustified warnings over the damaging economic impact of "uncertainty".
Economist Neil MacKinnon said a unilateral free trade deal would also help to curb the "quite substantial costs" to the UK economy caused by unskilled migrants on minimum wages. He said the group's latest estimates showed that they cost £30,000 per year for a worker with a family, totalling £7.4bn. 
Minford said economic growth would be largely unchanged by the Brexit vote and predicted UK gross domestic product (GDP) to hit 2.3% this year, before reaching 2.7% for 2017 and 2018, and then growing to 2.8% in 2019 and 3.4% in 2020. 
He said the forecasts were based on Britain leaving the single market, taking a tighter grip on migration and benefiting from long-term unilateral free trade. 
A well known monetarist economist and supporter of Margaret Thatcher, Minford said the collapse in sterling triggered by Brexit had acted like a "shot of adrenaline in the arm" of the UK economy.
He said the benefits of rising exports and increased wages helped to counter the negative impact of delayed business investment, while the view that uncertainty caused by the Brexit vote was hampering UK economic growth was "coming out of nowhere". 
The fall in the value of the pound, he said, "adds to inflation and it adds to wage inflation. It offsets the uncertainty factor with a stimulus to net exports. It leaves the economy more or less where it was." 
                     The International Monetary Fund and Paris-based thinktank the OECD have cut their forecasts for the UK's growth this year to below 2%, while credit ratings agencies, which judge a nation's creditworthiness, have downgraded the UK's status in their global rankings.
Minford said the panic was misplaced and had largely bypassed consumers, who had maintained their spending. He said the plunge in the pound also meant there was no need for Bank of England governor Mark Carney to take "rapid action" and cut interest rates. 
The group has predicted inflation to notch up to 1.3% this year, before rising to 2.9% next year, 3.3% in 2018, 2.8% in 2019 and 2.1% in 2020. 
Minford said an "EU-lite" model, which would see Britain remaining a member of the single market, would not deliver the same "substantial benefits and flexibility" of unilateral free trade. 
The EU has made it clear that Britain can only remain a member of the single market if it accepts immigration from member states through the free movement of people. 
"What are the trade relationships that satisfy voter demands? Well clearly not EU-lite," he added. "The only actual option that seems to be available that would satisfy voter demands is this unilateral free trade option. It generates control of borders, it generates democratic control of laws and regulations." 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               11 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Strong Abbey warns of Brexit

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Housebuilder Abbey has accompanied a better-than-expected annual profit by warning that 
Brexit has clouded the outlook for its business in the UK and Ireland.
The company's pretax profit surged 25 per cent to EUR 61.5 million, beating stockbroking firm Davy's EUR 54.5 million estimate. Its UK home sales rose almost 6 per cent to 544 homes, while it completed 23 transactions in Ireland and 30 in the Czech Republic.
Abbey shares rose 3 per cent to EUR 12.80 in Dublin.
"Trading in the early part of the new year has been encouraging, and the group has set budgets for the year showing increased activity across the business. However, the outlook is now clouded by Brexit," Abbey said. 
Slowdown 
" A slowdown in the UK economy is now being forecast, and in particular a correction in the housing market after its strong performance in recent years."  
Abbey, almost 75 per cent owned by the Gallagher family vehicle Gallagher Holdings , also said Brexit "casts a considerable shadow" over a recovering Irish market. However, the company said its strong balance sheet left it well placed to cope with uncertainty. It held EUR 90.4 million in cash and EUR 12.7 million in UK government bonds at the end of the financial year. 
"Full-year 2016 was an extremely strong year for Abbey. Margins were up significantly in the company's main divisions, and activity progressed in almost all areas," said Colin Sheridan, an analyst with Davy. 


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               12 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 7:34 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The Guardian view on Theresa May: new PM, same old problems; A fresh face won't make Brexit, the budget deficit or a tiny working majority disappear. The prime minister faces daunting challenges

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 765 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Mid-term handovers from prime minister to prime minister are an odd business. David Cameron drives into the inner courtyard of Buckingham Palace as prime minister, and within the hour Theresa May drives out as his successor. Yet although the face and the name are new, the problems that hemmed in Mr Cameron for his six years in office will hem in Mrs May just as tightly. No money, not much of a majority and one massive headache: Europe.
Mrs May will have to fight her way past all these hazards if she is even to begin to develop the interesting ideas that she set out in her first and, as it turned out, her only campaign speech in Birmingham at the start of the week. An industrial strategy, a bigger role for cities, a tough line on tax dodgers and an economy that works for everyone are likely to be ideas queued behind the huge challenge of negotiating Brexit on the best possible terms, while the economy slows and six years of squeeze on the NHS, council budgets and schools throw up more and more acute problems. There is, though, one dramatic difference that she can make: she can, and the signs are that she will, feminise the topmost regions of politics in a way that has the potential to transform the conduct of government.
She stood on the steps of No 10, only the second ever female prime minister, nearly 26 years after Margaret Thatcher left, red-eyed, and she delivered one of the boldest statements of intent a Conservative prime minister may ever have made. If she envisaged this as a way of introducing herself to the voters who will never have paid much attention to her in the past, she will have made an impact. In part she repeated and elaborated on the promise she made in her Birmingham speech on Monday. Reviving the Unionist part of the Conservative and Unionist party's full title, she made a striking commitment to preserve the United Kingdom, the "precious bond" that holds the nations together - and then she extended it to refer to the bonds between every citizen. She paid tribute to Mr Cameron, and then pledged to work not for the interests of the privileged few but for those of every ordinary working-class person in the country. This was a statement that, like Margaret Thatcher's Francis of Assisi quotes a generation ago, may turn out to be a terrible hostage to fortune. But it demonstrates a singleness of purpose that should not come as a surprise from a woman who has translated herself from the longest-serving home secretary in modern times to the top job in politics in less than a week.
The glaring omission from her statement was anything of substance about the crisis in which the UK finds itself after the vote to leave the EU. No hint of how she thinks the Brexit negotiations should be conducted, nor what her bottom line will be. Over the next 24 hours, much more will emerge. We will learn who will fill the big jobs at the top of government. But Brexit will dominate the political landscape for at least the next two years; the biggest job after the prime minister herself will be that of minister in charge of the negotiations. Mrs May - the first home secretary to reach No 10 since James Callaghan in 1976 - has argued that a balance can be struck between access to the single market and the free movement of people. She will fight to protect the City, where her whole non-political working experience was gathered. And it was evident from the very first thing she said that she will put at the heart of everything she does the infinitely fragile business of finding a way to allow Scotland the maximum possible access to the benefits of EU membership without destroying the union.
But she sees herself as a unifying prime minister. She has big ambitions for domestic policy. Largely state-educated, Mrs May has supported the expansion of a grammar school in her constituency, and she has talked of making her own schools policy a priority. But she will remain hawklike on security: her successor at the Home Office will inherit the snooper's charter, still being picked over by hostile peers. She will not backtrack on austerity; and if she hinted at an end to tax breaks for the rich, there will no resiling from the Tory image as a low-tax party.
As party chair, Mrs May was a driving force behind the effort to recruit more female MPs. As a result, she inherits from Mr Cameron a pipeline of women with the experience for promotion. In Amber Rudd, Justine Greening and Theresa Villiers, she has experienced cabinet ministers to put into big jobs. How differently can politics be done by women? We may, at last, be about to find out.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (87%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               13 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 8:41 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May took on the police but her new foes are far fiercer; As she enters the valley of the shadow of Brexit, with Boris Johnson by her side, the grim steeples of Brussels and Berlin loom ahead

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1111 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The House of Commons bade farewell to David Cameron today with the lighthearted generosity of spirit usual at a ritual sacrifice. It was a chamber in which he was a master. It was also his house of hubris. By the end of the day, Britain's constitutional assassins had seen him off, and Theresa May was monarch of all she surveyed. For the time being.
 Related:  Cameron v Corbyn final PMQs verdict: 'I was the future once'
What is to be the nature of the new reign? Most shocking was the announcement of Boris Johnson as foreign secretary. New chancellor Philip Hammond, by contrast, is seen as a safe pair of hands.
The remarks of an incoming prime minister on the steps of 10 Downing Street are seldom any guide to what he or she will do. May promised  to deliver for all, not just "the privileged few" and to create "a country that works for everyone". But where in the haystack of cliche lies the needle of significance?
May came to government in 2010 as a signed-up member of Cameron's modernisation project. Her job was to help discard the "nasty party" tag. Cameron at the time was impressive. His engineering of a coalition was masterful. He boldly promised to pursue social justice and to reform Britain's creaking welfare state, even under the cosh of recession.
Cameron's affability appeared to ease the harder edges of austerity, with gay marriage, foreign aid and the Olympics extravaganza as tokens of liberalism. He fought off Scottish independence and steered a steady course through the economic hardship that was crippling other governments in Europe. An articulate and dignified leader, he appeared to have a long career ahead of him.
So what went spectacularly wrong, such as to eject him from power barely a year after his re-election, and with so little real achievement to his credit?
Cameron was let down essentially by poor judgment. He misjudged his fellow ministers. Allowing Andrew Lansley's NHS reforms was reckless. So was his pledge on immigration, which May at the Home Office struggled, but failed, to honour. He proved vulnerable to lobbying from cronies in banking and planning. He appeased London's obscenely conspicuous wealth. He never challenged the defence lobby at home or the siren calls of intervention abroad.
For Cameron the bright lights of Notting Hill seemed always to triumph over attention to detail. Colleagues were advised to read Tony Blair's memoirs, not Margaret Thatcher's. Gradually Cameron yielded to the glamour of foreign affairs and left the domestic front to George Osborne.
Power gradually seeped from No 10 to No 11, culminating in the chaos of the 2016 budget over disability benefit cuts. In forecasting his own early departure, Cameron seemed almost to lose interest in the job.
But Cameron was brought down not by a referendum that he could not realistically avoid, but by failing to put himself above the fray, as Harold Wilson did in 1975. As a moderate Eurosceptic he had explicitly hated his party " always banging on about Europe ". As prime minister he could have said simply that he would enact the outcome, whatever it was. Instead he was seduced by his own invincibility in winning two elections and two previous referendums. He gambled. He flew too near the sun, and his wings melted.
May has now been left a half-eaten meal. Little in her conduct of office gives much clue as to what she will consume and what discard.
We know she is eager for social justice and a fairer society. So are most people. She has mooted changes to company law and industrial strategy. She wants race equality, and better opportunities for working-class boys, women and those with mental health problems.
However, what matters is not what May says now, but how her personality emerges in office, how she reacts under pressure, how she responds to colleagues in difficulty. Her steely aloofness is not necessarily a handicap. Cameron's clubbability, his political dilettantism, was seen as a failing. But May has to show herself sensitive to the nuances of Downing Street power. In the arts of leadership, she is untried.
Is she ready to switch resources from HS2 to HS3? Will she tell London jet-setters to make do with Gatwick and Stansted?
The practical record is opaque. May proved as susceptible as Cameron to the blandishments of the securocrats, notably on surveillance. If she has any commitment to personal liberty she keeps it secret. Her most celebrated show of guts was real, as the first home secretary to face down the police chiefs and call the Police Federation's bluff.
Whether she shows similar courage in the face of the more powerful groups who will now lay siege to her door is crucial. They will include the City bankers, corporate lobbyists, slick consultants and public-sector shroud wavers who crowded the golden court of King Cameron.
May has hinted at a determination to reverse the ever-growing gulf between London and the rest of the country. The dominance of the capital, unbalancing the economy, poses the greatest strategic challenge to any modern British government. But does she mean it?
An early sign will be her readiness to butcher the sacred cows left wandering the streets of the capital. With new chancellor Philip Hammond is she ready to switch resources from the south's HS2 to the north's HS3? Will she tell London jet-setters to make do with Gatwick and Stansted, and build capacity instead in the regions? Will she curb London's craze for flatulently empty towers of flats, and shift its bloated higher education sector northwards? These things will mean more than words.
 Related:  Cameron has washed his hands of No 10. But he's left an almighty mess | Polly Toynbee
For all this, May knows that when the tide of congratulation recedes, rising above the political slime will be those same grim steeples of Brussels and Berlin. They blighted the days and cursed the nights of her three Tory predecessors in Downing Street, Thatcher, John Major and Cameron. They will, for sure, curse hers.
May's cabinet will be inexperienced, but her opponents on Europe will be veterans. She knows she must somehow negotiate "the exit out of Brexit". She must construct a compromise that keeps trade in goods, services and labour flowing while meeting at least the letter of the referendum.
"Leaving" the EU is one thing, but all else is up for grabs. Her majority is tiny and her rule vulnerable.
As May ventures into the valley of the shadow of Brexit, her equivocal voice for remaining in the EU will haunt her. The police will seem like minor foes compared with the Conservative right. Fail in her battle with them, and before her time is out May too will be hearing the dying fall of Commons applause.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               14 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 9:23 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Wetherspoon chairman Tim Martin says Brexit is a 'modern Magna Carta'; Pub group chairman lays into Mark Carney, George Osborne and Christine Lagarde over 'dire warnings' about vote to leave EU

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 658 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Brexit-backing founder of pub chain JD Wetherspoon has described Britain's vote to leave the EU as a "new Magna Carta" and criticised the chancellor, George Osborne, and others for their "irresponsible doom-mongering" in the run-up to the referendum.
Tim Martin accused senior policymakers of running a dishonest campaign "blinded by spreadsheets and ego" prior to the EU referendum.
Singling out David Cameron, Osborne, the Bank of England governor, Mark Carney and the IMF managing director, Christine Lagarde, he said leading figures had been irresponsible by suggesting that there would be dire consequences if the leave campaign won.
Martin spoke as he issued a trading update on Wednesday, pointing out that the pub chain had been performing well since the referendum on 23 June.
"The chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, repeatedly warned that mortgage and interest rates were likely to rise in the event of a leave vote, and threatened an emergency budget to increase taxes and to reduce public expenditure," he said.
"Osborne's stance was supported by the prime minister, David Cameron, who also forecast an increased likelihood of war and genocide."
Turning to the business world, Martin said the CBI, as well as many FTSE 100 chief executives and top advisory firms, including Goldman Sachs and PricewaterhouseCoopers, were guilty of pushing an overly negative view of Brexit.
"In my opinion, the above individuals and organisations are either dishonest, or they have a poor understanding of economics, since democracy and prosperity are closely linked, and the EU is clearly undemocratic," he said. 
"By voting to restore democracy in the UK, I believe the UK's economic prospects will improve, although it is quite possible that the unprecedented and irresponsible doom-mongering, outlined above, may lead to some kind of slowdown."
Martin reiterated his view that Brexit was a modern version of the Magna Carta, the charter signed by King John at Runnymede in 1215. The original document asserted the fundamental principle that the king was beneath the law. 
Under the heading "new Magna Carta", Wetherspoon reissued a piece originally written by Martin three days after it became known that Britain had voted to leave the EU.
"The cataclysmic referendum result on Thursday has shaken the world. Democracy is back, but like prisoners confronted with freedom for the first time in decades, the nation is frightened and awestruck by its unlimited options.
"The legacy of 'project fear' is that the majority seems to believe that economic prospects are now worse, but unless history is turned upside down, the reverse is true. Democracy has always proved to be economic steroids."
He said those who prophesised doom for the UK in the event of a Brexit vote were "blinded by spreadsheets and ego, Mystic Megs [who] can't see the wood for the trees".
"Brexit is a modern Magna Carta, reasserting democratic control in the UK. It is up to UK citizens now to participate in formulating policies based on free trade with Europe and the world, an enterprise economy and sensible immigration policies, with parliamentary control," Martin said.
"The world is our oyster, provided we think clearly, debate strongly and prevent the paranoia and hyperbole of the referendum process from clouding our judgement."
The Wetherspoon chairman, who was one of the few high-profile business leaders to voice support for the leave campaign, said despite the "dire warnings" issued by the remain camp in the run-up to the vote, trading at Wetherspoon had improved in recent weeks.
As a result, the company was on track to deliver a better full-year performance than previously expected, he said.
In the fourth quarter ending 10 July, sales increased by 4% on a like-for-like basis, stripping out sales at pubs open for less than a year. Total sales rose by 3.8%.
Over the financial year as a whole, like-for-like sales were up by 3.5%, while total sales climbed by 5.5%.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               15 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What's next for Brexit Britain?

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; OFFERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 29 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Red Box What's next for Brexit Britain? Wake up to our free morning email Matt Chorley guides you through the day's essential political stories www.thetimes.co.uk /redboxemail


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               16 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 9:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Why kids shows make the best memes; Also this month, how the internet reacted to Brexit

BYLINE: Rachel Aroesti

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 827 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The first world war had poetry, Vietnam had protest songs and the 2016 EU referendum had memes. Internet memes were the immediate and primary creative response to Brexit (if you discount the Leave campaign's imaginative interpretation of truth, responsibility and the number 350m).
 Related:  Fur flies as #CatsAgainstBrexit stirs up EU debate
Memes may have played a part in spreading information and misinformation for both sides, but their ultimate contribution was comic relief. From picture-sharing hashtags such as #CatsAgainstBrexit and #DogsAtPollingStations, to the image of the union jack pasted on to the face of the woman in the Gordon Ramsay idiot sandwich clip, meme-makers were working overtime to encapsulate various degrees of despair in easily digestible pics and gifs. In some ways, it all felt a bit " sticking Crying Jordan's head on the £10 note while Westminster burns ", but then you know what they say: comedy equals tragedy plus 30 seconds on Photoshop. 
Nowadays, television comedy can't compete with that sort of topical humour, and even if it were speedier, nobody could invent a character who clapped more strangely than Michael Gove anyway, so what's the point? But memes still draw heavily on popular TV shows of the past, and by recycling and reinventing their images and jokes they are able to wring even more amusement and emotional resonance from them. 
Two shows that are heavily appropriated due to their visual distinctiveness and nostalgia-friendly lifespans are The Simpsons and SpongeBob SquarePants. Recent months have seen SpongeBob's disgruntled-looking prehistoric ancestor Primitive Sponge deployed as shorthand for all sorts of primal panic and frustration. Meanwhile, people have been re-editing scenes from The Simpsons into a series of videos collectively known as Simpsonwave. These are clips that have been discoloured and distorted in the style of old VHS tapes and set to the sound of vapourwave (an internet-birthed genre characterised by sampling certain kinds of 80s music in a satirical fashion). 
The result is a set of surreal films that enables The Simpsons to expand its evocative scope by transporting its characters and tropes into a more dreamlike and impressionistic world. When you look at it like that, staring at a looped, slow-mo clip of Bart Simpson dancing for three minutes seems like less of an utterly absurd way to spend your time on Earth.
Sometimes, more obscure moments in TV history are given a second life as memes. In Matt Lucas and David Walliams's 1999 show Rock Profile, Lucas plays a version of Shirley Bassey who haughtily dismisses various singers with the insult " she doesn't have the range ". This month the phrase exploded in popularity on Twitter thanks to @KingBeyonceStan, who used it as the conclusion to a list of bullet-pointed descriptions about musicians (Madonna, for example, "faked having the range in Evita, embarrassed Prince in Heaven, she doesn't have the range"). 
 Madonna: -faked having the range in Evita -embarrassed Prince in Heaven -she doesn't have the range pic.twitter.com/wtCvpweTKa - Lutrille Bluth (@KingBeyonceStan) June 21, 2016
As "she doesn't have the range" spread, it mutated into an insult that Twitter users could apply to anything at all, from Thomas Edison to a pair of knees. Although this is typical of the way a meme spreads - eventually the humour comes to rely on repetition and callbacks - it is worth noting that this is also the way it's used in the Rock Profile sketch: the punchline consists of Bassey claiming members of her audience are unable to throw their underwear onstage because they "don't have the range", proving how the life cycle of a meme mimics more traditional comic structures. 
Still, memes have been one of the few genuinely novel subcultures of recent times. But as they move from obscurity into the mainstream they are losing their counter-cultural cache. Never has that been more evident than during the events of last month, when US breakfast show Good Morning America tweeted the well-established meme of Kermit The Frog drinking tea (usually overlaid with the text "but that's none of my business") alongside the hashtag # tealizard. Amused by such an apparently ridiculous blunder, social media users took the faux pas and used it to generate more comedy, creating other erroneous names for Muppets characters and attempting to invent whole separate #tealizard memes. Actually, as it turned out, #tealizard wasn't a mistake; it was a reference to a more niche meme by Twitter user @TrillBallins, who had been referring to Kermit in such a way for a number of months.
At their essence, memes are a coded way of communicating with a select group of people, but this function is being eroded by media coverage and the fact they are currently the primary booster of Brexit-related morale. For now, it seems they're becoming in-jokes without the exclusivity; in other words, not quite as funny as they once were.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               17 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Will there really be a post-Brexit earthquake in financial services?

BYLINE: Peter Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 669 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: How will Brexit affect Scotland's financial services industry? Before the vote, there were predictions of thousands of lost jobs. After it, there has been much worrying, some fears of shrinkage but also some forecasts of renaissance. Martin Gilbert, chief executive of Aberdeen Asset Management, says: "I don't think it will affect it at all myself."
Given the fretting about the City's future, and that Scotland has between a fifth and a quarter of UK financial service jobs, this seems a little implausible, but Mr Gilbert's experience in the 33 years since founding AAM demands a respectful hearing.
Financial services are critically important to Scotland's economy, especially since the offshore slowdown and jobs haemorrhage. There are about 95,000 finance jobs, a lot of them very highly paid, and the wealth it creates (about 8 per cent of onshore GDP) supports perhaps the same number indirectly.
The industry has three main sectors: retail banking and wealth management, life and general insurance (both of which Mr Gilbert sees no reason to be particularly disturbed) and fund management, with associated asset servicing.
The key issue raised by anti-Brexiteers was passporting, the regulation that allows financial firms approved by the regulator of one member state to sell their services in all 28 EU countries without having to be authorised by local national regulators. Rather than lose this passport as a consequence of Brexit, the Remain campaign said, financial firms would move to other EU countries to keep it, taking a lot of their business, wealth creation and jobs with them.
Mr Gilbert says that this doesn't apply to most fund managers because they have their funds legally domiciled in other EU states to take advantage of tax transparency (not avoidance) laws in Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Ireland, but which were introduced only relatively recently in the UK.
AAM's funds are domiciled in Luxembourg. Mr Gilbert says: "It's a funny thing, but the only funds that will sell in Europe are Luxembourgbased, so it was a no-brainer and not through any forward planning or being very smart. We set them up 20 years ago.
"The big guys are us and Baillie Gifford and obviously Standard Life. We all have big operations in Luxembourg so we are all OK, really. I think Edinburgh is going to be OK."
Still, there is a lot of short-term uncertainty, particularly worries around commercial property losing earnings and value, although Mr Gilbert says that AAM's property fund has built up a "very, very large" large cash buffer.
Indeed, the pound's decline has caused AAM's large US dollar earnings to increase in value. According to Mr Gilbert: "I think we are going to be OK, but you never know the unintended consequences. We are still to find out the full extent of Brexit."
One such consequence is that Scotland, after the country's positive Remain vote, might stay in the European Union, either through some sort of special EU-linkage status inside a Brexited UK or through a referendum vote for independence in the EU.
Some, such as Daniel Broby, of Strathclyde Business School's department of accounting and finance, think that this could lead to Scotland gaining up to 50,000 finance jobs through flight from south of the border, as opposed to 5,000 being lost because of Brexitcaused contraction.
Mr Gilbert is sceptical, reckoning that this is speculating too far past too much uncertainty. He says: "We are really in the world of conjecture. Banks are in a cost-cutting mode, just generally, so I think those 5,000 jobs would have gone whether there was Brexit or not."
Mr Gilbert, who turns 61 today, said he would love it to be true that this country would gain 50,000 jobs if it was part of the EU, but what he desires most is for "Scotland to have a very sound financial system".
If he is right in his post-Brexit assessment, Scotland can be reassured that at least for next couple of years it still will have a financial industry to be proud of.
Peter Jones is a business and politics commentator


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ABERDEEN, SCOTLAND (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (92%); LUXEMBOURG (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               18 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 7:31 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit morning briefing: Theresa May reveals top cabinet jobs; New PM appoints some surprise choices, such as Boris Johnson as foreign secretary, while David Davis is in charge of Brexit

BYLINE: Chris Johnston

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 490 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Good morning and welcome to our daily Brexit briefing. Today: Theresa May's first day in office.
                   The big picture                   
So the UK now has a new prime minister in Theresa May after the former home secretary went to Buckingham Palace and then told the nation that the monarch had invited her to form a new government.
The really big surprise came with her decision to appoint the leading Brexit campaigner Boris Johnson as foreign secretary.
There was also a surprise elevation for Amber Rudd, the energy secretary, who will succeed May as home secretary. Rudd has been an MP since 2010 and only joined the cabinet last May.
Liam Fox also rejoins the ranks of Conservative heavyweights following years of being out in the cold after being appointed secretary of state for international trade.
                   Does anyone have a Brexit plan yet?                   
No, although that will now be down to David Davis, another leading leave campaigner, who becomes the catchily titled secretary of state for exiting the European Union. Expect that to soon become Brexit secretary.
For the real story of May's cabinet decisions, have a read of John Crace's sketch.
                                        You should also know:                                      
Owen Smith has set out his stall for the Labour leadership by saying he would offer the public a second referendum to ratify any Brexit deal Britain strikes with the EU.
Jeremy Corbyn tacitly endorsed bullying and intimidation of Labour staff by voting against the proposal for a secret ballot on Wednesday night, an NEC member said.
The Labour leadership is facing the prospect of a split on what action to take against Tony Blair over the invasion of Iraq as Emily Thornberry, the new shadow foreign secretary, opposed a censure motion against the former prime minister.
                   Diary                   
12pm: The Bank of England may cut interest rates to 0.25% in a bid to bolster the post-Brexit economy.
5pm: NHS solidarity march in central London to encourage action to defend the NHS from privatisation.
930am: Unite policy conference continues at the Brighton Centre.
                   Read these                   
Anne Perkins  dissects Theresa May's speech: what she said and what she meant.
Simon Jenkins says that although May took on the police her new foes are far fiercer.
Polly Toynbee writes that David Cameron has washed his hands of No 10 - but he's left an almighty mess behind.
                   Baffling claim of the day                   
Inevitably, it has to be new foreign secretary Boris Johnson: 
 Clearly now we have a massive opportunity in this country to make a great success of our relationship with Europe and with the world and I'm very excited to be asked to play a part in that. 
                                      And another thing                   
Would you like to wake up to this briefing in your inbox? Sign up here.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               19 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Friend or foe? How will Ireland and France proceed in the post-Brexit world?; As France celebrates Bastille Day, it's eyeing taking business from the post-Brexit UK - rivalling us. But strong trading ties between our two nations may help delicate negotiations, writes Sean Duffy

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 742 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: FRANCE is seen as one of Ireland's main competitors for attracting foreign firms who are assessing their options after the Brexit vote.
Last week the French government made initial overtures to multinational firms, saying it would offer extended holidays to executives, allowances for school fees, and significantly, said it would speed up the licencing process for firms willing to relocate there.
Competition for firms based in Britain has the potential to spark some friction between the French and Irish governments over the next couple of years.
Ireland holds an advantage from a tax standpoint; our 12.5pc corporation tax rate is markedly lower than the 33.3pc charged by the French authorities. However it is clear that the French are already putting packages in place that could attract interest away from Ireland.
Ireland's corporation tax arrangements have been the subject of criticism from France in the past, with the former Fianna Fáil government coming under pressure to raise the tax rate for multinationals during the country's bailout negotiations with the EU and IMF.
Former French President Nicholas Sarkozy caused consternation in 2011 when he suggested that Ireland should not receive any European funds for a bailout unless the government here were willing to change its stance on taxing corporates.
That notion was given short shrift by the government at the time, with Ireland eventually securing bailout money, albeit with painful conditions attached.
That issue now appears to be off the table as governments from across the continent scramble to scoop up foreign firms currently based in the UK.
However Ireland should tread carefully in the negotiations, due to France's position as an important trading partner. Trading between Ireland and France rose to (EURO)8.9bn in 2015, up over (EURO)500m on the previous year.
A key factor in fostering good relations between the two countries is the France Ireland Chamber of Commerce (FICC). Members include Smurfit Kappa, BNP Paribas and French utilities firm Veoila. The FICC was set up to support bilateral trade between France and Ireland. According to Cliona McGowan, managing director of the FICC, the relationship is going from strength-to-strength.
"There is continuing development in the relationship between the two countries each year. On a day-to-day basis, we have hired seven new staff this year at the FICC so things are picking up all the time. This year we added 20 new companies to the FICC, 50pc of which were French companies."
The FICC has been building relations between Ireland and France for over 30 years, and Ms McGowan believes the present climate represents a key opportunity to make the relationship even stronger.
"Collaboration has always been strong and will continue to be strong. There is a willingness on behalf of both governments to make sure that strong bond continues. President Hollande will visit Ireland this year and the Taoiseach has visited Paris on a number of occasions. I think that underlines how important both sides see the relationship," Ms McGowan said.
The FICC is currently conducting a survey of its members which will ascertain how the UK vote will affect companies. "We will use the survey of our members as a starting point to see how Brexit is likely to affect our members. It will be an initial reaction to gauge how companies are feeling," Ms McGowan added.
The France Ireland Chamber of Commerce currently has 150 members under four brackets; patrons, corporates, SMEs and start-ups.
At present, there are 300 Irish companies operating in France, providing 20,000 jobs. That was an increase of 80 companies and 4,000 jobs over the course of 2015, underlining France as an increasingly popular destination for Irish firms.
IT firms account for 33pc of all Irish companies in the country, while construction companies made up 27pc of Irish firms based there.
Last year Enterprise Ireland announced a number of new deals between the two countries.
Former jobs Minister Richard Bruton embarked on a trade mission which included meetings with over 100 French companies around the St Patrick's Day celebrations in 2015.
This week French multinational Veolia announced a deal which that will see it upgrade the Ballymore Eustace water treatment plant which serves the greater Dublin area.
Niall Gleeson, managing director at Veolia Ireland said: "We will be able to assist in ensuring the greater Dublin areas needs are met now and into the future."


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               20 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Prime minister, tell us what 'Brexit means Brexit' means

BYLINE: Chris Giles on Economics

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 637 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As Theresa May takes charge of her "Brexit means Brexit" government, her ambition is to show leadership; unify her party and the nation; and build an economy that works for everyone. These are all worthy objectives. But the incoming prime minister, as a serious politician, also knows that merely desiring good things does not make them happen.
In her speech on Monday, Mrs May announced a list of reforms and targets. The Treasury must work to im-prove productivity; the aim of energy policy will be to reduce bills; better research and development policy will enable companies to make the right investment decisions while industrial strategy will have the whole economy firing. There will be more housebuilding and the Treasury guarantees for infrastructure investment; and a plan for all our dynamic cities, not just one or two. She plans to put workers on boards , to make shareholder votes on executive pay binding and defend certain UK companies against hostile acquisition.
Looking at this list, it is hard not to conclude that, when Mrs May pledged to abolish "all the political platitudes", she was sailing close to the wind. To list three: faster productivity growth is something the Treasury frequently calls for; its representatives have been touring the world offering guarantees to anybody and everybody willing to fund UK infrastructure; and it makes at least one plan a year to create a better environment for R&D. The greater irony in Mrs May's list is that no item requires Brexit. Leaving the EU is at most marginal to productivity, R&D, housebuilding, infrastructure, regional and energy policy, corporate governance and most takeovers. Germany has worker representatives; France can block takeovers of even the least strategic sectors, such as yoghurt.
So Britain is none the wiser on what Brexit means. The result is damaging short-term uncertainty and longer-term threats to investment, competition and productivity. To retain her reputation as a serious politician, Mrs May needs rapidly to articulate her vision for Britain's new relationship with Europe.
What sort of trading relationship does she want? What will she prioritise when faced with inevitable trade-offs? When will she trigger Article 50 and start the formal process of leaving the EU? Does she believe there is a benefit to the public finances or must she level with the public that they were conned into thinking Brexit would bring billions home?
Also omitted from the speech was migration - one thing Brexit Britain can control. Clamping down will, of course, immediately throw up problems in the efforts for greater productivity and unity. Many voters in areas such as England's east coast, Cornwall, Wales and the former northern English industrial heartlands want fewer migrants. But high-productivity zones that pay the bulk of the nation's tax take - London, Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol, Manchester and Scotland - know their success is built on free movement in Europe and skilled immigration from elsewhere. National restrictions on migration will hit output, productivity and public finances.
The only way to unify the two sides is to devolve migration and residence policy to cities and regions, with tax revenues from migrants staying in local areas. This matches the right to reside with responsibilities to provide public services. If Clacton, the seaside town that elected the only UK Independence party MP, wants to become a 1950s theme park, with 1950s living standards, that should be its choice. But it cannot object to Bristol or Edinburgh taking a different approach.
For Brexit to mean Brexit, Mrs May must swiftly produce a definition and how it will work. All the policy stuff that is already possible as an EU member can wait. What Britain needs is a definition of Brexit before we seriously regrexit.
chris.giles@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               21 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 7:13 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: A safe pair of hands? Theresa May has taken a massive gamble; The appointments of Boris Johnson, Liam Fox and David Davis have made those who wanted to leave the EU own Brexit. The consequences will be huge

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1108 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Unknown Prime Minister was the title of Robert Blake 's biography of the largely forgotten Conservative premier of the 1920s, Andrew Bonar Law. But it could in some respects apply to Law's latest successor, too. Few modern politicians have climbed to the top of the proverbial greasy pole while revealing so little to the world about their politics as Theresa May has managed to do.
 Related:  Who's who in Theresa May's new cabinet
The limited stock of standard observations about May became overworked as the former home secretary surged from outsider to favourite and then to comfortable winner in the David Cameron succession stakes. She is a traditional Tory, she is experienced, she gets on with the job, she is calm, she is a safe pair of hands. Yet barely two days into the May premiership, these platitudes can now be safely pensioned off.
May has done three truly astonishing things, just one of which would go a long way to confound the cliches.
First, she has brought in from the cold a group of senior Brexiteer troublemakers and given them key roles in resolving Britain's post-referendum relationship with the EU. Second, by sacking the chancellor, George Osborne, she has marked a brutal break not just with the personalities, but also with the politics of the government in which she served without much apparent demur for six years. And third, she has delivered one of the most arrestingly inclusive speeches about her domestic priorities - echoed in her first remarks as prime minister on Wednesday - to come from the lips of any Conservative leader for years.
May's senior cabinet appointments were audacious. To rescue the careers not just of Boris Johnson and Liam Fox but also of David Davis, while waving goodbye to both Cameron and Osborne, is a dramatic reminder that the Brexit vote defines everything the new prime minister has to deal with. Safety first it definitely is not. It adds up to a huge gamble with both the Conservative party and the direction of the country.
May's appointment of three senior Brexiteers is a statement that they must own the consequences of the referendum
The appointment of the three senior Brexiteers is not merely an attempt by May to cement the loyalty of the Tory right or to gratify the Eurosceptic press - although it is both of these things as well. Much more fundamentally, it is a statement that the Brexiteers must own the Brexit decision and its consequences. They wanted the leave vote. They made it happen. Now it is their responsibility - and not the government's remainers - to make the choices that follow from it.
This will stick in the craw of Tory and non-Tory pro-Europeans. And so it should. The leave vote took our country away from us. But it may prove to be smart politics, and not only in internal Tory terms. It will force Johnson, Fox and Davis, very different political animals, to make hard choices. These will be their negotiations and their decisions and the outcome will be theirs, too.
This doesn't entirely rule out the dangers to May of a myth of Brexit betrayal taking root on the Tory right - or in post-Farage Ukip, but it certainly makes it a lot more difficult. If the Brexiteers had been excluded, then sooner or later the right would howl that they was robbed and that it was all May's fault. This way, if Brexit ends in tears, the right have to take full responsibility (though of course they never will).
The sacking of Osborne is important in other ways too. Dumping a chancellor is always a big statement, always a turning point. Osborne has been oozing blood in the water ever since the bungled tax credit changes in the March budget. His role in the referendum campaign ensured there would be no rehabilitation. But the message goes further.
 Related:  It's goodbye to the Bullingdon set - and hello to grownup politics | Melissa Kite
Alongside Cameron's departure, the Osborne sacking marks a very visible end to the decade of metropolitan posh boy dominance of the Tory party that even Johnson's rehabilitation cannot entirely obscure. Part of this is revenge by May against a clique from which she herself was excluded, and which made life hard for her - the sacking of Michael Gove was particularly personal.
But it is also a verdict on the modernisers' way of doing politics - the gimmicks, the hyperactive courting of the press, and the addiction, so damaging to Osborne in particular, to tactical positioning. Above all, though, it is an attempt to call time on the modernisers' conspicuous inability to connect their world with the majority of Britain that feels excluded, left behind and unappreciated by London.
This is the context for what could be the most daring aspect of May's premiership in the longer term - her readiness to use government to redress the deepening financial and social imbalances of the recent past. Her speech in Birmingham on Monday was a signpost towards a kind of Toryism that has become unfamiliar in both the Thatcherite and the modernising eras.
May's promise of a break with the past, her attacks on financial and business elites and on pay gaps, her embrace of things like an industrial strategy, regionalism, and codetermination by employees, and her repeated focus on the problems faced by the less well-off, adds up to an enormous agenda. Many will be tempted to dismiss it as mere warm words. And clearly she didn't get everything right - the number of women entering the cabinet was oversold.
How far she can achieve her stated goals, especially in the destabilising context of the Brexit negotiations, is questionable. But if May gets her way, this could evolve into an agenda that owes more to the municipal activism of Joseph Chamberlain - who she referenced in her speech on Monday - and the middle way one-nation approach of Harold Macmillan, than to Margaret Thatcher or Cameron.
May is not an economic liberal in either the Thatcherite sense or in the more modern globalising sense embraced by Osborne. She has protectionist instincts and social harmony priorities. She believes in government, not in the top-down planned economy sense, but in the classic stabilising of the nation state sense.
Her years at the Home Office, grappling with security and immigration - not always successfully or attractively - have reinforced this. Unlike so many other Tories of various traditions in the past 40 years, she is not afraid of the state's economic or social role. Perhaps she is best thought of as a post-liberal politician. And if ours is indeed an era in which the shiny confidence in globalisation has worn paper thin, she may have it in her to be an emblematic political voice of a post-liberal age.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               22 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Barratt backs off post-Brexit land-buying plans; Construction

BYLINE: Judith Evans

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 330 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Barratt Developments, the UK's largest housebuilder by output, has decided to place land-buying commitments on hold where possible and evaluate recent purchases after the Brexit vote.
David Thomas , chief executive, said the group was reviewing decisions on land acquisitions made during April to June and would "defer land contracts where we can" until conditions are clearer.
"The biggest decisions we make are about land expenditure and we expect to be very, very focused about every land decision," he said.
Barratt has doubled its annual housebuilding rate in the past five years, but the land review points to the potential for a more conservative approach after the EU referendum - although Mr Thomas said market conditions would become clearer in September, when it and rival housebuilders report results.
The group said yesterday that it was set to make record profits for the full year, but saw its shares sink as investors received no guidance on post-referendum trading.
Barratt expects to announce a 20 per cent rise in pre-tax profit to £680m for the year to the end of June, but declined to comment on trading levels since the June 23 vote to leave the EU, saying it was too soon to assess the market.
The FTSE 100 group's shares sank by more than 4 per cent in early trading before recovering to close down 1 per cent. They have shed more than 29 per cent of their value since the EU vote.
Analysts at Deutsche Bank said: "With uncertainty over the outlook for the UK and housebuilding post-Brexit we believe the market will be blinkered, focusing only on trading in the 'new world'."
Brandon Lewis, housing minister, and Greg Clark, communities secretary, met housebuilders on June 30 to discuss any risks to construction in the light of the housing shortage.
The sector has received extensive support through the government's Help to Buy scheme, and Mr Thomas said this would help support housebuilders even if sentiment turns negative in the market for second-hand homes.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               23 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 12:03 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Boris Johnson and diplomacy are not synonymous; Britain's new foreign secretary was singled out by the Germans for causing Brexit with 'a diet of lies' and once described black people as 'piccaninnies'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 907 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:                      Boris Johnson 's surprise appointment as foreign secretary is as much about the dismemberment of the foreign office as the sudden resurrection of the Conservative party's favourite loveable rogue. It is also the first confirmation that Theresa May is going to be prepared to take risks in government.
For diplomacy and Boris Johnson are not, after all, exactly synonymous. Any cursory reading of his regular Daily Telegraph columns reveals praise of Vladimir Putin, calls to accommodate President Bashar al-Assad and indiscretions about the president of the United States. The Germans have previously singled out Johnson for causing Brexit with "a diet of lies".
So even though Johnson had played a dominant role in the leave campaign, few thought May would regard it as politically necessary to bring him back into the fold. He may remain hugely popular in the Tory constituencies and large parts of the country but he was always assumed to be too big a risk and someone who might outshine the comparatively dour prime minister.
Margaret Thatcher for instance tended to favour the duller end of the foreign secretaryship, choosing figures such as Geoffrey Howe, Francis Pym or Douglas Hurd.
But the foreign secretaryship may not turn out to be one of the great offices of state in a May government. Much of the heavy lifting on Brexit is going to be taken up by a new Brexit department, and to be conducted by David Davis, a former shadow home secretary and Europe minister in the Major government. Davis had no role in the Cameron government and was untrusted by the Cameron team, but now faces one of the toughest jobs in government. It will be his task to disentangle the UK from the European Union, including when to trigger article 50. Johnson - who has in the past likened the EU to ill-fitting underwear - will be kept away.
At the same time a heavily ideological Brexiter Liam Fox has been put in charge of a revamped department of trade. It will be Fox's task to try to seal trade deals with India, Europe, China, Canada and the US. It will take mind-numbing application.
 Related:  Boris Johnson's Palestinian trip cut short after pro-Israel remarks
Few would describe Johnson as a details man - the deserved reputation of his predecessor, Philip Hammond. But he will at least give the Foreign Office a much-needed psychological lift after the vote for Brexit. The Foreign Office has tried to make the best of the referendum vote but senior ambassadors have been in tears and there is a real anger among the younger diplomats at the way in which their political masters have managed to throw away what they regarded as an essential pillar of Foreign Office influence through the exit from the EU.
At the very least, he will keep the British overseas presence on the map as he travels the globe, selling an image of a new free-trading independent nation replete with soft power and optimism. It will be his task to show the rest of the world that the UK is not isolationist, gloomy, neurotic or on the edge of a nervous breakdown, the dominant impression in Europe. The image on the front page of the French newspaper Libération soon after Brexit was Boris Johnson marooned on a zip wire holding two union jacks - a nation of stranded buffoons.
Born in the US and of Turkish ancestry, Johnson will argue he is an emotional internationalist, even if some of his overseas trips as London mayor stopped short of diplomatic triumphs.
On a visit to Israel as the mayor of London, he managed so badly to straddle the diplomatic divide that the second part of his visit to Palestine had to be abandoned. On a 2015 goodwill trip to Japan he rugby tackled a 10-year-old child.
A 2015 visit to Iraqi Kurdistan also went badly awry. He left with an unpaid bar bill, a blocked request to visit frontline troops and a thwarted joyride from a car showroom in an F-Type Jaguar. The visit at the invitation of the Kurdish prime minister, Nechirvan Barzani, had been intended to see UK troops training peshmerga fighters taking on the self-styled Islamic State. He has already had to apologise once in a trip to the US for likening Hillary Clinton, the likely next President of the United States, to a "sadistic nurse in a mental hospital".
Johnson also blundered in the referendum campaign by highlighting the Kenyan ancestry of Barack Obama, leading many American Democrats to regard him as B ritain's answer to Donald Trump. His description of black people as "piccaninnies" was quickly recalled.
 Related:  Boris Johnson criticised for trips as opponents say he is part-time mayor
More seriously he was a fierce opponent of the Iraq war, describing Tony Blair as unhinged and suggesting that he might even be a war criminal.
Johnson has also suggested that Britain may have to recognise that Bashar al-Assad will have to be befriended. Asking where the UK could find allies in Syria, he replied in a Telegraph column: "The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress. Thanks at least partly to Russian airstrikes, it looks as if the regime is taking back large parts of Homs. Al-Qaeda-affiliated militants are withdrawing from some districts of the city. Is that a bad thing? I don't think so."
He added: "If Putin's troops have helped winkle the maniacs from Palmyra, then (it pains me to admit) that is very much to the credit of the Russians."
Diplomats, hold on to your hats.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               24 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bottoms up to Brexit

BYLINE: Matthew Vincent

SECTION: LOMBARD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 212 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: What kind of Brexiter are you? asks Matthew Vincent . On entering a JD Wetherspoon pub, do you ask for: a) The usual; or b) The wine list? Wetherspoon's chairman, Tim Martin , argues that regulars saying a) should be Brexit celebrators. He has less time for gloomy Europhile oenophiles answering b), allowing sorrow-drowning generally only in New World grape varieties.
However, yesterday's trading update read not so much as a carte des vins as a list of whines. He complained that any economic slowdown would have nothing to do with leaving the EU and be entirely due to "doom-mongering".
In recent weeks, he noted, the pub chain's sales rose. But operating margins will fall to 6.8 per cent, continuing a downward trend from 9 per cent to 6.4 per cent, according to S&P forecasts.
In March, Wetherspoon blamed the government's Living Wage. But, in future, even finding staff may prove difficult, given Wetherspoon currently employs EU migrants. "In London, they're a reasonable percentage," Mr Martin says. Nevertheless, analysts at Edison think the shares will hold up well "in a recessionary economy." So what kind of Brexiter is Mr Martin: a) a supporter of politicians who harm his margins; or b) a critic of doom mongers who might buoy his shares?
matthew.vincent@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               25 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and the new legal order[...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 26 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit and the new legal order: read the daily email from The Times - with the latest news from the legal world Sign up for free www.thetimes.co.uk/thebriefemail


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               26 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit experts Fierce competition as [...]

BYLINE: Edward Fennell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 133 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit experts Fierce competition as to which lawyers can corner the market in Brexit expertise. It's tweets at dawn as barristers and solicitors send out messages and vie for subscribers to their commentaries on legal issues arising from the referendum. Those at 39 Essex Chambers are gathering the great and good in tax, financial services and procurement over breakfast seminars to discuss the implications of becoming a "third country". And Inner Temple Hall is the venue next Thursday for a heavyweight panel discussion on "Brexit and the Constitution", held by Brick Court and featuring Dominic Grieve, QC, MP, with academics and top constitutional barristers. Perhaps it can unravel that riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma - namely "Brexit means Brexit". 
edward.fennell@yahoo.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               27 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit experts; Law Diary

BYLINE: Edward Fennell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 130 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Fierce competition as to which lawyers can corner the market in Brexit expertise. It's tweets at dawn as barristers and solicitors send out messages and vie for subscribers to their commentaries on legal issues arising from the referendum. Those at 39 Essex Chambers are gathering the great and good in tax, financial services and procurement over breakfast seminars to discuss the implications of becoming a "third country". And Inner Temple Hall is the venue next Thursday for a heavyweight panel discussion on "Brexit and the Constitution", held by Brick Court and featuring Dominic Grieve, QC, MP, with academics and top constitutional barristers. Perhaps it can unravel that riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma - namely "Brexit means Brexit".
edward.fennell@yahoo.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               28 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit steers UK cars into unknown territory; Concern mounts as report says factories run by Nissan, Honda and Toyota are most at risk of closure after EU vote

BYLINE: Peter Campbell in London and Kana Inagaki in Tokyo

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1216 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Walking the length of Nissan's car plant in Sunderland takes substantially longer than it did a year ago.
A £250m expansion of the site - already the UK's largest car assembly line - introduced a new wing that enables the factory to make luxury saloons sold under the Japanese carmaker's Infiniti brand. Nissan said in December that the investment heralded a "new chapter" for the plant.
Now, however, the factory is one of several in the UK that face an uncertain future following Britain's vote last month to leave the EU.
Some car industry executives have expressed concerns that if the UK struggles to retain good access to the EU single market after Brexit, then British car plants risk becoming uncompetitive, leading to lost work on refreshed models and, in time, possible closure.
A senior manager at one UK car plant, speaking on the condition of anonymity, says: "At the point when we need the next round of investment, if we can't compete and if the British government doesn't help us then I will be very, very worried [about the future of the factory]. We're a global company, we have to make a decision that makes economic sense."
The UK car industry - which employs 800,000 people - has enjoyed an extraordinary renaissance in the past 20 years, after significant investment by overseas automobile makers.
Much of that investment was premised on the UK's membership of the EU - under the single market arrangements, overseas carmakers dispatch their UK-made vehicles for sale on the continent without incurring tariffs.
New prime minister Theresa May faces the tricky task of trying to maximise UK access to the single market in forthcoming negotiations with the EU, while also seeking to control immigration by curbing free movement of people.
Two big challenges posed by Brexit for overseas carmakers with UK plants are flagged in a new report by PA Consulting.
First, a period of uncertainty during talks between the UK and the EU over Brexit - the formal negotiations might not start until 2017, and could last two years - could prompt these carmakers to place important work on model upgrades with their operations elsewhere in the world.
Second, that if the UK's access to the EU single market after Brexit is deemed to be inadequate by these carmakers, then some of their UK factories could ultimately close because they would be uncompetitive.
Not everyone is fearful about the future of the British car industry. Stephen Booth, a director of the Open Europe think-tank, predicts there will be a tariff-free trade agreement between the UK and the EU after Brexit.
"Given that it's likely that the UK will have tariff-free access we would expect the UK car industry to cope over the long term," he says.
The PA report argues that of the British plants owned by overseas carmakers, those operated by Japanese companies - Honda, Toyota and Nissan - are at most risk of eventual closure if the factories become uneconomic after Brexit.
The three companies' factories, which PA says have a "high reliance on exports to Europe and relatively low margins", account for about half the vehicles made in the UK.
Tim Lawrence, head of manufacturing at PA, says Honda and Toyota have struggled to extract meaningful profits from their UK operations since the late 1980s because the plants are running at low capacity, reflecting how the factories are making some of the companies' less popular vehicles.
Honda's Swindon site will become the global manufacturing hub for the five-door Civic car in 2017, but within three years the company must take a long-term decision about whether to renew this or move the work elsewhere.
Ian Howells, a director of Honda in Europe, says the Swindon plant "plays an important role in our global manufacturing operation". He adds: "Honda remains committed to its manufacturing activity in the UK."
Toyota is unlikely to make any new investment in the UK until there is clarity on tariffs with the EU, says one person close to the company.
Johan van Zyl, head of Toyota's European business, said after the Brexit vote that the long-term future of its two UK plants was dependent on the outcome of trade negotiations with the EU, although he stressed the company was "committed" to Britain.
Toyota officials say it is premature to discuss the possibility of the company moving production outside the UK, with some hoping Britain can reach a compromise with the EU that would keep the status quo mostly intact.
PA meanwhile highlights how Nissan has the option to shift work from its Sunderland plant to factories in continental Europe run by its global alliance partner Renault, and that this move may become attractive following Brexit.
Arnaud Deboeuf, a director of the Renault-Nissan Alliance, says the Sunderland plant "is key for Nissan in Europe with the production of [the] Qashqai [SUV] and the production of Juke [a compact SUV], so in the short term there will be no impact".
The Vauxhall plant in the UK, owned by General Motors' European arm Opel, is less likely to close than those British factories operated by Japanese carmakers, according to PA.
However, PA says the lack of certainty about tariffs places a "question mark" over the Vauxhall plant's future.
Vauxhall says the company "fully supports [the UK] remaining part of the European Economic Area" and wants to see trade negotiations "concluded in a timely manner".
PA also places a question mark over the future of BMW's Mini plant in the UK, but says the company will face a strong pull to retain the factory because of its British heritage.
BMW says there will be "no immediate change to our operations in the UK" but that it "will not speculate about the outcome of these [Brexit] negotiations".
Jaguar Land Rover, the UK's largest carmaker with 40,000 staff and owned by India's Tata Group, will stay in Britain, predicts PA.
Adrian Hallmark, JLR strategy director, said this month the company was "committed to Britain, and will stand by that decision".
Drive for access 
Groups in continental Europe expected to push for free trade 
Ford and BMW make engines that are then shipped from their British plants to continental Europe and further afield for use in factories assembling their cars.
Among other things, Ford's UK-made diesel engines power its Focus car that is manufactured in Germany. BMW's Britishbuilt engines power its 3 Series car that is also assembled in Germany.
A significant proportion of these Ford and BMW cars containing UK-made engines are then dispatched back to Britain for sale.
The UK is the second-largest market for car sales in Europe after Germany - last year 2.6m new vehicles were registered in the UK, of which more than 2m were imported.
For this reason, carmakers based in continental Europe are expected to press their governments to allow free trade between the UK and the EU after Brexit, according to automobile industry executives. "It's difficult to see a car company who would support tariffs," says one executive.
Access to the UK market is especially important for German carmakers including BMW, Mercedes-Benz owner Daimler, and Volkswagen. "Germany needs the UK," says Arndt Ellinghorst, analyst at Evercore ISI.
The German car industry, which supports suppliers including Bosch and Continental, is the country's largest sector and biggest corporate taxpayer, he adds.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JP Japan; GB United Kingdom; XO Asia; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               29 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain's lurch to the right in May's Cabinet; ? Kenny wants Brexit as soon as possible

BYLINE: Kevin Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 268 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: NEW British Prime Minister Theresa May has appointed a senior team of right-wing ministers who will aggressively pursue the exit from the EU.
Although Ms May struck a conciliatory tone on her appointment, reaching out to the working poor, she proceeded to appoint right-wingers and pro-Brexit MPs.
Prominent Brexit campaigner Boris Johnson was surprisingly appointed as Foreign Secretary.
And long-time Eurosceptic David Davis became the Minister for Brexit. The pair were immediately branded "May's team to battle Brussels" by the British anti-EU press.
New Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond is regarded as a firm believer in economic stability and prudent public finances. During his time in Opposition, he was viewed as the Tories' public spending "axeman" and later presided over budget cuts in the Ministry of Defence.
Another firm right-wing figure, Liam Fox, became the Trade Minister.
Ms May followed up on her statement that "Brexit means Brexit" and she would implement the referendum result.
The British Cabinet appointments will dispel any suggestion of a second referendum on Brexit or delay in the depart date. And Taoiseach Enda Kenny wants the Prime Minister to seek to take the UK out of the European Union "as soon as possible".
The Taoiseach spoke with Ms May following her appointment last night and discussed what he described as "the important challenges that arise from the recent vote by the UK to leave the European Union".
Mr Kenny previously pleaded with EU leaders to give Britain time to adjust to the Brexit vote, but he has hardened his stance.
Reports and Analysis, pages 12-17


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               30 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Can 'Silicon Roundabout' weather Brexit uncertainty?

BYLINE: Davin O'Dwyer

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 872 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: After last month's Brexit vote, a billboard truck drove around London's Silicon Roundabout district, the heart of the city's thriving technology scene. Its message was simple: "Dear start-ups: Keep calm and move to Berlin." 
You can decide for yourselves if there was a hint of schadenfreude in the message, paid for by Germany's liberal Free Democratic Party, but it was certainly the cheekiest example of the concerted effort made by other European cities to capitalise on the UK electorate's decision to leave the EU. 
Industry leaders in Amsterdam, Paris and, of course, Dublin, have also been making overtures to London-based technologists in a bid to claim some of the start-up momentum now that the UK has been thrown in to a period of self-inflicted uncertainty.
Only time will tell if the efforts of rival European capitals to attract some of the start-ups that would otherwise have naturally gravitated to London will be successful on any meaningful scale, but there are some important aspects to consider. Above all, it is important to appreciate what goes into making a technology start-up ecosystem.
On a recent visit to San Francisco, I discussed Silicon Valley's unique qualities with a number of entrepreneurs and investors. It is one of the great clichés of the technology sector that politicians and business leaders in other parts of the world look to Silicon Valley in an effort to understand the ingredients of its success, seeking ways to replicate it in their own countries.
But in discussing what makes the place such an incredible hotbed of innovation, it's clear that the usual ingredients - access to talent, access to capital, a culture of risk-taking and the cross-pollination of ideas - are only a part of the story. Any ecosystem is more than the sum of its parts, which grow interdependently and organically.
Amazon rainforest 
It occurred to me that visiting dignitaries asking how they can replicate Silicon Valley might as well be going to Brazil and asking how they can grow the Amazon rainforest back home. The Amazon and the Valley are unique ecosystems that grew over long periods of time, a result of specific conditions, serendipity, network effects, and above all without any central planning or planting involved.  
The environment had to be just right, and the conditions just so, to allow the delicate interplay of different actors to flourish, be they plants, mammals, and insects, or tech giants, venture capital firms and start-ups.
In this analogy, the success of Ireland in attracting US technology companies to set up here can be roughly equated to building an enclosed tropical arboretum - create a dedicated environment, import some flora and fauna, and keep everything watered and humid. It's not the real thing, by any means, but it gives a good impression of what a tropical rainforest feels like. The downside is the limited scope for growing indigenous plants, but that's what the rest of the botanical garden is for.
It is useful to see London's development as a start-up hub in a similar light. London is not Silicon Valley, of course, but the cluster of start-ups there didn't happen for arbitrary reasons. The scene has a pronounced financial tech focus, and is in many ways an offshoot of the City of London; in some senses, the fintech explosion is an inevitable result of the city's role as a global financial centre. 
Needless to say, the city established itself as Europe's financial capital over many decades and for many reasons, with the proverbial light-touch regulation being a big one. The network effects of having so many financial professionals in one place, combined with access to so much capital, gave London a big advantage over other European rivals in the fintech space. New York-based financial firms are naturally well-disposed to the place, with English in common and only five hours in time difference. 
What worries London's tech scene are the ingredients most at risk from Brexit. The EU's freedom of movement make attracting talent easy and bureaucracy-free; indeed, one in five UK technology founders are foreign. In addition, "passporting" privileges allowed London-based firms to provide services across the EU while enjoying that famously feathery regulatory environment. Ironically, the UK was a key player in pushing for the introduction of the Digital Single Market.
While not exactly Amazonian in complexity, that is the sort of ecosystem environment that will be difficult for other cities to quickly replicate as the Brexit process changes the landscape. 
London's advantage Cases can be made for lots of rival cities which have some but not all of those advantages. Dublin is relatively well-poised to derive some benefit, even as it suffers from Brexit-related headwinds. Paris and Frankfurt are already established as financial centres, if not as light-touch as London. Berlin is very attractive to young talent as it fosters a start-up scene that feels almost as artistic as technological. 
Perhaps London's advantages are so great that its start-up scene will weather this period of uncertainty. The concern for London's technology leaders, however, is that Brexit will be akin to an environmental shock that pollutes the ecosystem beyond repair. 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (57%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); IRELAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); GERMANY (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               31 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 5:34 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Coffee with a conscience: the rise of social enterprise cafes; A Bristol cafe is hoping to promote multiculturalism post-Brexit, a Swansea outlet gives its profits to charity and a London coffee shop supports ex-offenders

BYLINE: Joanne O'Connell

SECTION: GUARDIAN SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS

LENGTH: 851 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sprinkling almonds into a bowl and spooning on layers of aromatic rice, vegetables, spices and meat stirs up memories of home. Susan may be a long way from her old life as a university lecturer in Damascus but cooking riz bel bazella is a vivid reminder of the family she left behind in Syria. 
"I was crying as I made this," she tells Kalpna Woolf, ex-BBC head of production and founder of Bristol's International Peace Cafe, a pop-up cafe where meals are cooked by people representing many different cultures in the city. "Every time my auntie used to cook it, she'd shout to me that she was making my favourite food. I'd jump over the garden fence to eat it with her." 
Now living on her own in one of Bristol's less salubrious areas, Susan - and others like her - get the chance to share stories and eat communally at the peace cafe.
It's part of the 91 Ways project, also founded by Woolf, which brings together people from the 91 languages spoken in Bristol. Having proved popular - it had 200 people at its first event - the cafe is setting up as a social enterprise. It aims to be self-funding, to plough profits back into the project and to expand. 
The idea is to establish new cafes across the city and roll out the concept in other parts of the UK. According to its founder, there's never been a more pressing need for it. 
"The result of the EU referendum was upsetting," says Woolf. "But look behind it and you see that the vote was faceless. There's a lot of unhappiness, people genuinely are struggling. One way to show how much we have in common is to get together over food. It brings communities together." 
The peace cafe is part of the new wave of cafes run as social enterprises. Cafes-with-a-conscience or a cause. You can drink an artisan coffee in east or south London at Brewbird, which trains ex-offenders in barista and baking skills, or at the Square Peg in Swansea, where profits are given to charities, or buy a "suspended coffee" to be given for free to a homeless person, at The Lodge Cafe in Chester. 
An advantage of being public-facing is that these cafes are also well-placed to set a visible example of diversity and opportunity. According to a 2015 report published by Social Enterprise UK, 40% of social enterprises are led by women, 31% have black, Asian and minority ethnic directors, and 41% created jobs in the past 12 months.
"People notice how many of [the Brigade's] front-of-house staff are from eastern Europe as well as Spain and France," says David Adair, head of community affairs at PricewaterhouseCoopers. It supports The Brigade cafe, a social enterprise in Southwark, London that helps people who are at risk of or have experienced homelessness to gain employment.
He says: "We're located in a culturally diverse, multi-ethnic community and we encourage local people to work here too, which brings people together." 
When the social enterprise has the added bonus of being a cafe, it means people are being trained in skills that give them a chance of long-term employment, says Sue McAllister, director general of the Northern Ireland prison service.
                     The Cabin Café at Belfast's Hydebank Wood college, a young offenders secure unit, has been so successful it's now setting up as a social enterprise (so it can run self-sufficiently). While it brings those on the inside together with the staff and the local community, it also, crucially, helps secure employment for people when they leave. 
"The hospitality industry is often willing to give people a go," says McAllister. "We've had people who have served sentences go on to work in local businesses. It's helped to make people employable and to connect with the community, which reduces the chance of people re-offending." 
Gone are the days when good-cause cafes meant a cuppa and a biscuit in church halls. To turn a profit - albeit one you are giving away - you have to provide a caffeine hit and a showstopper of a cake that competes with local businesses. 
"When we set up Paper & Cup in Shoreditch, we consciously designed it to look like any other cafe here," says addiction therapist Brent Clark. "People's expectation of coffee is very high. My thinking was we'd get customers to come for the coffee, and when they later learned about the work we do with recovering addicts it would be an added bonus." 
It's worked. To the point that even when the cafe runs sessions for those in recovery, giving away free cake and coffee, members of the general public still come in. "We give them a coffee and cake too and explain what's going on," says Clark. "At least half of them stay and socialise. The joy for me is when I see everyone mixing together."
Many of those working in these cafes with a cause say cafes like this have evolved into an essential enterprise: it's not an added luxury or a quick way to make splashing out on a latte feel like a charitable donation.
Woolf says: "With the divisions that Brexit highlighted, the urgent need to break down barriers and the economic need to create jobs and opportunities, cafes like this have become an absolute must-have in our society." 


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               32 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Department to be 'beefed up' over Brexit; Taoiseach planning to strengthenmissions in Rome, London, Berlin and Paris

BYLINE: Marie O'Halloran

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 478 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Taoiseach Enda Kenny has told the Dáil he will be 
"beefing up" his department in the wake of Britain's vote to leave the EU.
Mr Kenny said he would form a new Cabinet committee which he would chair "with principal Ministers to attend and those, if necessary, beyond that".
The Taoiseach also said the Government planned to "strengthen the different missions we have abroad in Rome, London, Berlin, Paris and so on".
He said extra staff would also be taken on within the relevant Government departments.
Speaking during Taoiseach's Questions, Mr Kenny said some staff from his department would be moved to the Department of Foreign Affairs to have a more specific focus.
He would give TDs further detail of the changes "to deal with Brexit and its consequences and beefing up those things". 
Advisory council
 Green Party leader Eamon Ryan asked the Taoiseach to consider establishing an advisory council similar to that set up by Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon to bring in international, academic and other national experts outside the public service system. Such a council could advise the Governmento on its approach.  
Labour leader Brendan Howlin agreed, and said he did not want to sound in any way critical "but many of the very fine civil servants we have engaged in these matters, who are some of the finest public servants in Europe, come from a mindset that is very Eurocentric".
"We need to broaden this debate now because we are in very changed times."
People Before Profit TD Richard Boyd Barrett asked if the Taoiseach thought there was a "supreme irony and hypocrisy in the fact that it is the EU which claims it supports the free movement of people which might be the obstacle in the way of the free movement of people between Britain and Ireland". 
Timeline
 Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin had called for article 50, the measure Britain will use to begin discussions on its EU exit, to be triggered sooner rather than later. He said everyone had accepted the September timeline as being reasonable to give the British government time to arrive at its basic position.  
Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams pointed to remarks by new British prime minister Theresa May that she would not consider triggering article 50 until next year.
He said "this is vitally important in that as prime minister she is equal co-guarantor of the Good Friday agreement". 
Mr Adams was concerned at her wish to scrap the Human Rights Act which was a fundamental cornerstone of the agreement.
Mr Kenny told Opposition leaders that a "large degree of uncertainty persists on the UK side in regard to a number of key issues".
He said they would have to wait and see first what the British wanted. "Do they want a Norwegian, Swiss, Canadian or Singaporean strategy? What is the intent of the new prime minister? I hope to be able to get an early meeting with her to discuss some of this."


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); NORWAY (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               33 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Don't bet on Brexit bounce continuing

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The financial markets appear to have been caught in something of a post-Brexit afterglow. After suffering heavy losses in the immediate wake of the vote to leave the EU, equities have staged a remarkable recovery. Sterling, while well down on its pre-vote levels, has recovered a fair bit of ground. So was all the initial fuss overblown?
Probably not. There are two ways to interpret the markets of recent days. One is some belief Brexit will never happen. With the new prime minister vowing it will, this seems a dangerous assumption.
The second possible reason is a feeling that Brexit may not be so bad after all. This is also highly questionable. Most forecasters expect Britain to enter a period of low growth or recession in the short term. Beyond that, huge uncertainty about the its trading arrangements remain. To gain entry to the European Economic Area - and maintain much of its free trade arrangements - the UK would most likely have to agree to maintain freedom of movement. As it appears not to want to do this, it is not clear what the way forward will be.
In the week ahead two things are likely to hit home. The first is the deterioration in the short-term economic outlook. Recessions are not theoretical concepts, they involve people losing jobs. The second is the incompatibility between keeping free trade arrangements with Europe and restricting immigration. To add one cliché to another, the penny will drop that the UK will not be able to have its cake and eat it. This will have a political impact and will quickly remove any honeymoon factor for the new prime minister. It will surely also have an impact on the markets.
 It is hard to see how the post-Brexit rally can be sustained. There will be ups and downs for sure, and big UK-based companies will report higher sterling profits. But lower growth in the UK and uncertainty about the future will also, surely, continue to be reflected in equity and currency markets. It is surely risky to bet too much on the post-Brexit bounce continuing.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               34 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Frankfurt is favourite for Brexit jobs while Dublin comes a distant second

BYLINE: Dalia Fahmy

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 557 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A SURVEY published by Ernst & Young last Monday suggests Frankfurt will see the biggest influx of employers from the City of London following the UK's decision to vote in favour of leaving the European Union.
More than 70pc of the survey's respondents favoured the German city over Dublin, Paris and Amsterdam, all three of which have been mooted as potential hosts for the 100,000 financial services jobs which it is estimated could be lost by the UK because of Brexit.
After Frankfurt, Dublin emerged as the second choice with 13pc of the EY survey's respondents favouring our capital city. Paris emerged as the third preference of those surveyed, with 6pc of respondents giving the French capital their vote.
EY surveyed 555 German market participants following the UK's referendum, which took place on June 23. About 40pc of respondents said they're still unable to evaluate the impact.
"The German real estate market and the city of Frankfurt will be among the biggest beneficiaries of the Brexit vote," EY wrote in a statement on Monday describing the survey results.
Property investment volumes, prices and rents across Germany will all rise as a result, with Frankfurt emerging as the biggest beneficiary, the statement added.
Commentators here have expressed mixed views in relation to the degree to which Dublin and other major Irish cities stand to benefit from the potential inflow of companies and employment from London and elsewhere in the UK as a result of Brexit, In an interview with the Irish Independent last week, Jones Lang LaSalle managing director John Moran summed up that uncertainty, saying there was a danger that potential gains from Brexit could be "overplayed".
In terms of the potential benefits for Frankfurt, however, the Viennese-headquartered real estate company CA Immobilien Anlagen AG believes it will boost the German city's commercial real estate prices, accelerating a trend that has already pushed building values to record highs.
"We've been in a clear upward spiral, and even without Brexit there's a lack of supply on the investment side," Frank Nickel, CA Immo's chief executive officer, said in an interview.
The company is one of Frankfurt's biggest developers, with properties including Tower 185 and the Skyline Plaza mall.
Banks with operations in London are widely anticipated to move at least some of their staff to mainland European cities such as Frankfurt, Dublin, Paris or Amsterdam to counter the risk of losing unfettered access to the single market as the UK prepares to disentangle itself from the EU. As many as 100,000 financial-services jobs could be lost in the UK by 2020 because of Brexit, according to an estimate by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
If those jobs end up in mainland Europe - as firms move functions including securities clearing and derivatives trading to the EU - demand for new office space could reach 1 million square metres (10.8m sq ft), Capital Economics estimates.
Yields for Frankfurt's most desirable offices fell to 4.3pc at the end of 2015, 20 basis points lower than a year earlier, according to data compiled by BNP Paribas Real Estate. Yields, which measure returns from property investment, move in the opposite direction of prices.
"Investors will pull back from the UK a little bit now and choose options in Continental Europe instead," Nickel said. (Bloomberg)


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               35 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Global trade deals will be bigger than within EU, says David Davis; Brexit minister says UK can negotiate tariff-free access to EU single market and article 50 should not be triggered till end of 2016

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 939 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:                      David Davis, the new minister for Brexit, believes it will be possible to secure bilateral trade deals with the rest of the world that are larger than the value of the EU single market within two years. He also believes that tariff-free access to the EU single market can be negotiated for the UK because it is in the self interest of the UK, and the EU. His preferred model is the recently struck Canadian Comprehensive and Economic Trade Agreement (Ceta).
Davis, who was appointed on Wednesday evening in the first round of cabinet appointments to Theresa May's government, thinks that article 50, the formal process for negotiating the UK's exit from the EU, should not be triggered until the end of the year.
Discussing the balance of negotiating power between the UK and the EU in the event of Brexit, Davis said in February : "The pressure from European companies for a free trade deal between the UK and the remaining members of the European Union would be huge.
 Related:  What's the best Brexit Theresa May could get for Britain?
"We have far more to gain than we have to lose, while the opposite is true for the EU. People have spoken, wrongly, about 3.3 million British jobs being 'linked' to our membership of the EU. Well there are over five million jobs on the continent that are linked to trade with Britain.
"The first few months may be hysterical, but the leaders of France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the rest know that the way to lose elections is to destroy your own industries. That is a powerful advantage for us."
Davis claims that even if the UK were unable to reach a deal, and the trade relationship between the EU and the UK reverted to the terms of the World Trade Organisation, the tariff barriers are relatively small and "almost certainly negotiable down to zero".
His ambitions, set out in an article for Conservative Home and other lectures, are likely to be regarded as optimistic by trade experts, and by some civil servants in Whitehall. The UK at present does not have the capacity to negotiate trade deals as such deals have for years been conducted at the EU level. Whitehall is scouring business, the European commission, and friendly world powers for trade specialists.
Davis also appears to be opposed to settling for a halfway house as an interim measure in which Britain joins the EEA in the same way as Norway so allowing access to the single market but on condition it retains free movement of labour and capital.
Davis wrote: "The idea that we have to fit our future into some Procrustean bed created for far smaller countries is nonsense."
But he does state it might be negotiable saying "it does not work for the UK as it stands". He added: "To make it viable it would need an arbitration court (not the European court of justice), a dispute resolution procedure, and a number of other institutional changes. It would be possible to design and even negotiate such a structure, but it would take much more than two years."
 Related:  EU tells Swiss no single market access if no free movement of citizens
Instead Davis argues the Swiss option - European Free Trade Association membership plus a host of bilateral treaties - is the best starting place. But he also acknowledges in Switzerland problems have developed due to the EU insistence on Switzerland accepting the free movement of people.
He says instead the best model is the Canadian Ceta deal that the EU has just struck. "It eliminates all customs duties, which the EU website excitedly describes as worth (EURO)470m (£395m) a year to EU business. A similar deal with Britain would save it five times that on cars alone. This would be a perfectly good starting point for our discussions with the commission."
He claims the balance of advantage lies with the UK in the negotiations. "If Europe wants to stick to trading on a WTO basis, they are very badly positioned to do so. Everyone knows that the balance of trade is in Europe's favour.
"We currently import £59bn more from Europe than we export. After Brexit we would be Europe's largest export market, worth £289bn in 2014, larger than China."
In his Conservative Home article written only a fortnight ago, he conceded the deals with the EU would be complex, but if the EU slapped tariffs on the UK, a Conservative government could retaliate by putting tariffs on EU products and use the revenue to invest in British industry.
He also insists he does not see independence from the EU as an excuse to worsen working conditions by deregulating labour laws beyond their current state.
 Related:  UK productivity gap widens to worst level since records began
He claims the single market has held back UK productivity : "In the single market period our exports grew if anything slower than our OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) competitors, despite our membership. During the single market period, despite all the costs incurred, the treaties signed, the regulations implemented, despite all the controversies of the European project, our performance in selling to Europe was worse than our competitors outside the EU."
The first bilateral trade deals should be struck with the US, China, Canada and Hong Kong, followed by Australia, India, and South Korea, he said.
He also favours institutional changes in Whitehall to secure these deals. He writes: "The funding would be available to set up an office in every major commercial centre and capital, completely separate from the Foreign Office, staffed with experts who know the language, the customs and the regulations, and are on hand to help British businesses develop links in the country."


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (75%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               36 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Homes market gives mixed message amid Brexit turmoil

BYLINE: Harry Wilson

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 357 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A clutch of housing surveys delivered confusingly mixed messages yesterday, with lending figures pointing to rise in purchases while the latest surveyors' trends found buyers' inquiries dropping to their lowest level since the financial crisis.
Homeowners borrowed £9.4 billion in May, a 15 per cent month-on-month rise and up 8 per cent on the year, while borrowing by first-time buyers rose by 23 per cent on last year, according to the Council for Mortgage Lenders.
The CML figures were in marked contrast to the latest RICS survey, however, which showed interest across the country dropping significantly last month because of the Brexit vote.
RICS said that its members had reported a 45 per cent fall in instructions in June, the steepest slide on record. Across the country, 36 per cent more chartered surveyors reported a decline in interest, the worst reading since the middle of 2008.
"Big events such as elections typically unsettle markets, so it is no surprise that the EU referendum has been associated with a downturn in activity," Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at RICS, said. Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight, said that he, too, expected the housing market to cool.
Yet the CML said that the property market had been "regaining some equilibrium" and that for banks it was "business as usual".
"Brexit, and its likely effect on the market, is a question to which the answer will not immediately be forthcoming," Paul Smee, director-general of the CML, said.
The Bank of England backed up the CML's optimism with its survey of lenders showing demand in the second quarter at its highest level since the first three months of last year. The Bank has already taken action to ensure the referendum had little impact on the domestic banking system, cutting capital requirements for lenders, meaning they do not have to keep such large buffers against potential losses. The Mortgage Advice Bureau said the RICS figures were a "temperature check" on the post-Brexit market as the data was collected after the vote. However, it added that the CML data provided reasons to be optimistic.
Barratt builds defence, page 51
Graphic
Margaret Thatcher was celebrated for increasing home ownership, but house prices rose more steeply under Edward Heath


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               37 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: House prices hit in June by Brexit vote

BYLINE: Francess McDonnell

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 194 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: House prices in Northern Ireland were hit last month by the uncertainty surrounding the UK's Brexit vote as buyers and sellers got cold feet, according to latest industry research.
The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and Ulster Bank Residential Market Survey showed a "downshift in sentiment" in June as a result of both the EU referendum vote and the impact of a higher stamp duty in place on investment property sales.
The survey highlighted that new buyer inquiries fell for the third month in a row and there was also little demand from house owners to place property on the market. Although local surveyors reported a rise in house sales in June off the back of a sharp slowdown in May they did not expect the trend to continue.
RICS spokesman Samuel Dickey said it was not surprising that the uncertainty in the wider economy was hitting the housing market. "Only after the initial shock of the past couple of weeks has passed will we get a clearer picture of how the market is faring. A lack of supply has characterised the Northern Ireland housing market in recent years, particularly in greater Belfast, and this should continue to be a factor."


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               38 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Housing market suffers after Brexit vote; Rics survey

BYLINE: Chris Giles, Economics Editor

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 738 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's housing market has taken a post-referendum nosedive with a sharp drop in purchase inquiries at estate agents, a reduction in sales agreed and expectations of falling prices .
In its latest survey of estate agents and surveyors, conducted after the vote to leave the EU, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found a "marked drop in activity in the housing market".
The monthly survey is a leading indicator of house prices and economic activity related to moving home. The latest results provide the first nationwide confirmation that the Brexiters' victory has put the brakes on house purchases and related spending.
New buyer inquiries declined significantly across the UK in June, Rics said, with 36 per cent more chartered surveyors reporting a fall in interest than those reporting a rise, the lowest reading on this measure since 2008. London and the south of England were hit hardest.
Simon Rubinsohn, Rics chief economist, said the data suggested the dip in activity "will persist over the coming months, but the critical influence looking further ahead is how the economy performs in the wake of the uncertainty triggered by the vote to leave".
A large majority of estate agents believe house prices will fall over the next three months - in sharp contrast to the view expressed to Rics in the May survey, when most thought prices would rise over the coming year.
The Rics survey has proved an accurate indicator, suggesting a difficult time ahead for house prices and the volume of sales post- Brexit . New instructions from sellers have not been lower on the Rics survey since 2000.
Estate agents' estimates of the number of sales they will make over the next three months have fallen to levels below those seen after the global financial crisis of 2008-09, while their report on sales made in June was the lowest since 2008.
Lucian Cook of estate agent Savilles said: "The fall in new properties coming to the market gives the strongest indication that households are going to delay their decision to move, at least until some of the political uncertainty clears."
Jeremy Leaf, a London agent who responded to the survey, said: "In the past month, we note a new realism in the market following the referendum as sellers' expectations have lowered marginally, allowing genuine buyers the opportunity to proceed at realistic prices." With the housing market under pressure, all eyes will be on the Bank of England today to see whether the Monetary Policy Committee cuts interest rates in a bid to mitigate a Brexit-related downturn. Some agents see this as a silver lining to the clouds hanging over the housing market.
Mr Rubinsohn said: "Respondents to the survey are understandably cautious but with rates heading lower and sterling significantly so, it remains to be seen whether the concerns about a possible stalling in both corporate investment and recruitment are justified."
The deepest pessimism among agents was in London and the south-east, where the housing market was already stressed before the referendum following large gains in prices in recent years, changes to stamp duty and new taxes for buy-to-let landlords.
Bank lending 
Demand for credit forecast to drop
Britain's big banks expect demand for credit from businesses and households to fall as a result of post-Brexit economic uncertainty , according to a Bank of England review.
The number of house purchases is forecast to fall and companies of all sizes are expected to delay decisions on investment, mergers and acquisitions. Lenders expect these factors to reduce demand for borrowing in the short term, even though they intend to keep credit available for most borrowers.
The only sector facing a squeeze on credit is corporate real estate, where banks reduced lending sharply in the second quarter of 2016 and say they will continue to do so.
The BoE review of credit conditions is based in part on discussions with the six largest UK lenders conducted after June's referendum. The banks expect the availability and cost of mortgages and unsecured credit for households to remain broadly the same over the next few months but warned credit conditions could tighten if the economic outlook deteriorated.
More concerning for the economy and public finances in the short term is the expectation that demand for mortgages will fall, suggesting that housing market activity will drop off. Gemma Tetlow
Editorial Comment page 14 Chris Giles page 15


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (59%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               39 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Housing sales forecast to fall sharply this summer after Brexit vote; Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors finds 'significant' decline in buyer interest in latest market survey

BYLINE: Hilary Osborne and Angela Monaghan

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 725 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The number of homes changing hands is expected to slump this summer in the wake of the UK's vote to leave the EU, with estate agents and surveyors more pessimistic about the housing market than at any point since the late 1990s.
Inquiries from buyers fell for the third month running in June, and the number of sales agreed dropped sharply as the Brexit vote fuelled uncertainty in the market, according to the latest monthly survey by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (Rics). 
New buyer inquiries declined "significantly" during the month, it said, with 36% more respondents reporting a drop than an increase - the lowest reading since the financial downturn was beginning in mid-2008. 
Over the same period, the supply of properties coming onto the market fell in every region except Northern Ireland, Rics said, and sales fell for a third consecutive month.
 Looking ahead over the next three months, 26% more Rics members expected sales to drop further than expected a busier housing market. "This is the most negative reading for near-term expectations since 1998," Rics said.
The numbers of surveyors in London reporting falling prices slipped deeper into negative territory in June, with nearly half of surveyors in the capital reporting falls rather than rises. Price falls were particularly concentrated in central London. 
The referendum is not the only factor behind the dip in activity. The stamp duty hike on second homes, which came into force on 1 April, has also disrupted the market. 
Rics's chief economist, Simon Rubinsohn, said: "Big events such as elections typically do unsettle markets so it is no surprise that the EU referendum has been associated with a downturn in activity.
"However even without the buildup to the vote and subsequent decision in favour of Brexit, it is likely that the housing numbers would have slowed during the second quarter of the year, following the rush in many parts of the country from buy-to-let investors to secure purchases ahead of the tax changes."
Rubinsohn said a critical factor in how the housing market performs in the coming months would be the reaction of the wider economy to the Brexit vote. 
"Respondents to the survey are understandably cautious but with interest rates heading lower and sterling significantly so, it remains to be seen whether the concerns about a possible stalling in both corporate investment and recruitment are justified," he said.
On Wednesday, Britain's biggest housebuilder said it might reduce the rate at which it builds new homes in response to a possible slowdown in the housing market following the referendum result. Barratt Developments said it was rethinking its building and land-buying programmes because the outlook for the industry was uncertain.
David Thomas, Barratt's chief executive, said: "Following the EU referendum, we are mindful of the greater uncertainty now facing the UK economy. Consequently, the immediate outlook for our industry is less clear and it is too early to draw any conclusions regarding market conditions from the short trading period since the referendum.
"We had contingency plans in place and we have taken appropriate measures to reduce our risk, such as reassessing land approvals, as we continue to monitor the market."
However, Thomas said Barratt and the housing industry in general were in good shape. "The sector continues to receive focused government support, mortgage availability is good and there remains an undersupply of new homes," he said.
Figures from the Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) show that lending recovered in May after falling sharply in the first month of the new stamp duty rules. The CML said the value of lending for house purchases was up by 8% year on year in May, at £9.4bn, while the number of loans grew by 5% to 53,800. First-time buyers were particularly active, taking out 27,500 loans, 16% higher than in May 2015; for the second month running, new entrants to the market borrowed more than home movers.
However the CML said the Brexit vote could mean there would be quieter months ahead. The CML's director general, Paul Smee, said: "Brexit, and its likely effect on the market, is a question to which the answer will not immediately be forthcoming. Lenders will continue to be open for business as usual, but lending volumes may be affected by uncertain consumer sentiment."


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               40 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 11:09 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: How do UK brands expand overseas in a post-Brexit world?; Digital tools mean exporting your brand is easier than ever. Graze, Made.com and Wetsuit Outlet explain how they fared

BYLINE: Suzanne Bearne

SECTION: MEDIA NETWORK

LENGTH: 1256 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Visit Jerusalem and you'll find Topshop and Clarks stores. When in Dubai, you can stop by Fortnum & Mason and fill up on a picnic hamper or fine tea. Head to New York and you'll see customers queuing at Penn Station's Pret a Manger. Across many corners of the world, British businesses are making a mark on local markets.
 Today, helped by the internet, many British companies are global players. One in 10 (10.8%) UK companies export, according to the most recent figures from the ONS. Exclude financial companies and this increases to 15.3%. 
 Many, like Richmond-based healthy snacks company Graze, set their sights further afield when they've achieved success on home ground. "We only had to look at the size of the US snack market to know that we wanted a piece of it," says Graze chief executive Anthony Fletcher. "America's snacking and food retail markets are more than eight times the size of the UK's, and clearly presented the biggest opportunity across the world to scale our business. It was important for our growth ambitions to make inroads into this geography before other competitors beat us to it and got too much of a stranglehold on the market."
 Rather than expanding slowly, the company blitzed the new market, launching in every US state at once in December 2013. "Offering a subscription service, it would have been against our ethos to impose restrictions on delivery and eligibility, and would have also been hard to reconcile with our online marketing campaigns and social media presence, which know no barriers," says Fletcher. "The dream for us was jumping in feet first." 
The strategy paid off: within 24 hours, Graze had a customer in every state; within three weeks 30,000 orders had been placed and by three months it had gained 100,000 customers.
 With water sports enthusiasts across the world landing on its website, e-tailer Wetsuit Outlet felt compelled to start selling overseas. "We were getting people emailing us and approaching us to buy wetsuits from us across the world and lots of traffic worldwide was landing on the site," says director Ian Homan. "We've had orders from bizarre locations like Sierra Leone. I think it helped because we're a niche retailer with few competitors".
 Most of the site's traffic comes via organic search. "As our website is solely for water sports and nothing else, it means we have a really high prominence on Google," says Homan. Wetsuit Outlet started running paid search across Europe 18 months ago to coincide with the launch of dedicated country sites in France, Germany, Italy and Spain and has seen an increase in sales on the back of the investment. Today, a "substantial" amount of its business stems from overseas, with the e-tailer shipping to 60 countries.
 Investing in digital marketing has helped galvanise overseas sales for furniture e-tailer Made.com, which has a presence in France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany.
 "Digital is essential in helping our business internationally," says Annabel Kilner, commercial director at Made.com, which sees around a third of its revenues come from outside the UK. "We can target a specific audience - we know what our audience looks like in the UK and we can buy a similar audience in other markets. For a business like ours that is focusing on fast growth, we very much look at ROI [return on investment] and digital is trackable." 
When Made.com launched in France in 2013 the company invested in display advertising to build brand awareness but Kilner says the company's digital marketing tactics overseas are now more focused on a combination of paid search, paid social, Google Shopping and retargeting.
 However, while there are obvious gains to be made from expanding overseas, there are challenges ahead, not least because of Brexit. On the back of Brits voting to leave the European Union, financial markets plunged into freefall and a cloud of uncertainty now hangs over both the economy and consumers. British companies are now expected to approach international expansion with a higher degree of caution or delay striking new deals and getting into bed with their European neighbours until the future of the UK's relationship with the EU becomes clearer.
Brexit aside, companies have flagged up other hurdles when considering taking the plunge and expanding overseas. According to a survey by Santander and research firm Dods, over two-fifths (44%) of SMEs said determining where the best opportunities are is the key challenge they face when trying to develop in new markets overseas. This was followed by concerns over currency fluctuations (38%) and lack of local knowledge (29%).
Wetsuit Outlet's Homan reels off several challenges to selling overseas, including the cost of fulfilment. "In the UK you can send a parcel for £5 but it may cost up to £25 if you're sending to an island in Greece. You always want to deliver quickly to a customer so you might want to pick air rather than road and that hits margins. We do swallow most of the costs and we're happy to do that as we want our niche to grow and develop further." 
He also says there are issues surrounding dealing with queries in foreign languages. "We do use Google Translate but we have placed investment in hiring multi-lingual support staff."
Understanding the risks, and testing the market to overcome them?,? is key to ensuring you land on your feet.
  Anthony Fletcher, Graze    
 Kilner advises companies to thoroughly research any potential new markets and weigh up the pros and cons. "We chose France because three of the founders are French and knew the market," she explains. "Plus it's only three hours away door to door. The ease of getting there easily was important to us. Whilst we have a team on the ground in the UK running the company, we use local agencies for support so it's important to have a good relationship and meet face to face."
 Digital communications agency Cult LDN co-founder Cat Turner says brands plotting international expansion should start early with their local strategy. "Tease out the launch of your brand or product in advance. Also, involve local influencers and work with key players to introduce your brand through respected third-party endorsement."
 Be warned, expanding overseas can be massively complex and it's not for the fainthearted. "Think about if it's worth it," says Homan. "It is for us as we're in a niche. If you're not in a niche and you've got to compete with some big players, then it could be hard. It's a big investment but there are other easier ways, such as selling through eBay and Amazon, which could provide a stepping stone."
 There's no universal right or wrong way to go international, says Fletcher. "Whether you commit to setting up local infrastructure, or run operations purely from the UK, the process is still the same. It's still a huge leap, and understanding the risks and testing the market to overcome them, is key to ensuring you land on your feet." 
 With strong confidence in your international business plan, it could be a risk worth taking. 
                       To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox,                         sign up free for Media & Tech Network membership                       .                                        
                     All Guardian Media & Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled "Paid for by" - find out more                                            here                                          .                   


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               41 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ibec calls for new budget to counter Brexit; Ibec's director of policy says UK has thrown down gauntlet with its business tax plans

BYLINE: Charlie Taylor

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 499 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Government should tear up any existing budget proposals 
 and prepare a bold new plan that meets the threat from Brexit head on, according to Ibec.
Speaking prior to the lobby group's launch of its Budget 2017 submission, Ibec's director of policy Fergal O'Brien told The Irish Times that Ireland could not afford a "business as usual" budget.
"Brexit is a potential major crisis for the Irish economy and we cannot be complacent about it. We need to see a reaction from the Government. We need to see a competitive response." 
Mr O'Brien said the British government had begun to compete more aggressively with Ireland on tax in recent years and would likely to continue to do so, noting former chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne's recent proposal to cut corporation tax in the UK to 15 per cent. 
Acid test 
Describing Budget 2017 as an "acid test for the Government", Mr O'Brien said the British government had thrown down the gauntlet on its business tax ambitions. Ireland must respond by repositioning itself as a "nimble, dynamic, pro-business and pro-entrepreneurship economy".  
In its submission Ibec has outlined detailed proposals to reform business and personal tax offerings to make Ireland a more attractive location for highly-skilled workers and entrepreneurs. 
Proposed measures include improving the treatment of capital gains relative to the UK, extending the earned income tax credit for the self-employed, introducing a seed enterprise investment scheme, and providing companies with an option to claim the R&D tax credit at 37.5 per cent "above the line".
Ibec said sterling's collapse was squeezing exporters and that must be met by focusing on keeping costs under control, including labour costs. 
"It would be daft in the circumstances to have an increase in the minimum wage given that it would impact on all of the sectors most likely to be hit by Brexit, such as retail and tourism," said Mr O'Brien. 
Moving operations 
He warned that unless significant changes were introduced to make Ireland a more compelling place to invest, many Irish-owned businesses could consider moving their operations to the UK.  
"Ireland may be an attractive location for large multinationals but for indigenous enterprises it is not a good place to be." 
The business group said, despite the heightened uncertainty of Brexit, the Government should not deviate from plans for a modestly expansionary budget that should include making an additional EUR 1 billion outside the current fiscal rules available for social housing.
Ibec also called for more cash to be spent on transport, education and broadband.
"This can't be a 'business as usual' budget. If it is then we're going to find ourselves in trouble," said Mr O'Brien.
"The risk is that, given the minority government structure, we could end up in paralysis. It is important, therefore, that all the political parties come together and recognise the scale of the problems posed by Brexit, and that this is reflected in Budget 2017." 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               42 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 11:13 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: International student numbers have been plummeting for years. Now what?; Brexit is an opportunity to look at the way we treat foreign students. Policies - and rhetoric - need to change

BYLINE: James Pitman

SECTION: HIGHER EDUCATION NETWORK

LENGTH: 760 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Higher education is already feeling the effect of the Brexit vote, with UK academics being dropped from joint applications for funding from the European Research Council. The future of students coming to study in the UK from the European Union is similarly uncertain, as free movement comes under threat. But if Britain is to remain a popular study destination for students from around the globe, it is more important now than ever that the government urgently reviews its treatment of international students. 
 Related:  Theresa May's hard line on international students will rob us of income and talent
We know that international students (from outside the EU) are looking to study away from their home countries in greater and greater numbers. That figure is increasing by 6% a year, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. We also know that the UK is home to the some of the best universities in the world, so it would follow that many of these students would choose to study here. But by December 2015, the number of non-EU student arrivals hit a nine-year low of 167,000 ; by March 2016, non-EU applications to study in the UK had dropped to 222,609, a 6% decline.
                   Notoriously hostile                   
New prime minister Theresa May was notoriously hostile to international students in her previous role as home secretary. She tightened visa requirements last year and made it more difficult for international students to work in the UK after graduating. These students are also included in net migration figures - which the government is desperately trying to reduce. 
But international students clearly shouldn't be part of the conversation about migration. They benefit our universities and the economy (to the tune of £7bn a year ), and they don't generally hang about if they can't find gainful employment afterwards. Why would anybody spend thousands and overcome a plethora of hurdles to study here, only to claim benefits afterwards? 
Look at Australia. This is a nation with famously draconian immigration controls that nonetheless recognises the importance of overseas students. In May 2016, the Australian government announced its 10-year roadmap for attracting foreign learners. It's a student-centric initiative focused on improving teaching quality, providing superior support, and building partnerships - with the aim of attracting 720,000 new enrolments by 2025.
Our politicians should take inspiration from Australia and recognise the value of international students. There have been encouraging signs from some in Parliament. MP Paul Blomfield and Lord Bilimoria are co-chairing a new All Party Parliamentary Group for International Students to emphasise the contribution of international education to the UK, for example.
                   Damage done?                   
 However, the damage to our economy may have already been done. Parthenon/EY research estimates the total cost of declining overseas student numbers over the past five years to be £8bn. That figure does not reflect the impact of the potential skills shortage on the economy, nor does it take account of the soft power benefit the UK is sacrificing - a report from the Higher Education Policy Institute found that 55 current  leaders of foreign countries were educated at a higher level in the UK. 
 Related:  Be bold, Mr Osborne, and embrace international students
 The referendum result could prompt a review of policies relating to international students - and the government should be pushed to change course in terms of both rhetoric and policy. 
The visa system should be rigorous, but not punishing, and must be guided by best practice elsewhere. Students should be free to undertake work alongside their studies and given time to fill valuable roles in industry after graduation. As in Australia, the government needs to work with the sector to jointly develop strategies that serve all stakeholders and treat students as temporary migrants subject only to growth targets.
Above all, both EU and international students should be treated as any other contributors to our expansive, multicultural society. With the institutions and resources we have, we should be leading this market, not lagging behind. 
                     Join the higher education network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on Twitter @gdnhighered. And if you have an idea for a story, please read our guidelines and email your pitch to us at highereducationnetwork@theguardian.com                   


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               43 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: JD Wetherspoon; Brexit foes attacked

BYLINE: David Ricketts

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 124 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The pro-Brexit chairman of JD Wetherspoon has hit out at several leading economists and forecasters for "irresponsible doom-mongering" in the run-up to the UK referendum on leaving the EU.
Tim Martin , who distributed 200,000 anti-EU beer mats to his pubs ahead of the vote, yesterday used his company's trading statement to dismiss predictions that leaving the EU would have a negative impact on the economy. The International Monetary Fund's Christine Lagarde, Bank of England governor Mark Carney and the Treasury were his main targets.
Mr Martin said those that had warned of a rise in interest rates and taxes in the aftermath of a vote to leave were "either dishonest, or they have a poor understanding of economics".
David Ricketts 
See Lombard


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               44 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Johnson returns to limelight as reshuffle reveals the Brexit pack; FOREIGN SECRETARY

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 800 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Boris Johnson will be Britain's representative on the world stage and one of the guarantors of Brexit after being appointed foreign secretary.
In an astonishing comeback, the former mayor of London took his first cabinet position less than two weeks after tumbling out of the race for Conservative leader, then backing Theresa May's opponent, Andrea Leadsom, for the top job.
His role is likely to be a diminished version of the post, with some responsibility transferred to David Davis, the new secretary of state for Brexit, and Liam Fox, the trade minister. He is likely to spend long periods of time in different time zones.
Mr Johnson told BBC News that he was "obviously very, very humbled, very, very proud to be offered this chance". He added: "Clearly now we have a massive opportunity in this country to make a great success of our relationship with Europe and with the world and I'm very excited to be asked to play a part in that." Mr Johnson became a global presence for Britain during the 2012 Olympics and went on numerous trade delegations as mayor of London, although they were frequently beset by gaffes.
Most notably, he was forced to backtrack after saying that Hillary Clinton looked like a "sadistic nurse in a mental hospital". The comment was made in a column for The Daily Telegraph in 2007, in which he painted an unflattering portrait of her. "She's got dyed blonde hair and pouty lips, and a steely blue stare, like a sadistic nurse in a mental hospital," he wrote.
Shortly before meeting her last year, he revised his opinion. "I'm sure that whatever I've said in the past will be taken by the senator, who is a very distinguished politician, in the light-hearted spirit in which it was intended." He forged a strong relationship with Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York. Mr Johnson only recently relinquished his US citizenship.
Mr Johnson's return will be a surprise to many in Westminster after his enthusiastic endorsement of Mrs Leadsom as having the "zap, drive and determination" to be prime minister. He was serving as a backchannel with Mrs May's team as early as last Thursday. As Mrs Leadsom's campaign for the leadership was plunged into crisis over the weekend, he was shuttling messages between Team May and Team Leadsom.
Mr Johnson has previously told friends that he is ambivalent about Mrs May, not really understanding how she operates. The contrast in their political approaches means that they are unlikely to become soulmates but they could complement each other.
Mr Johnson is likely to face a difficult reception from EU leaders, who were openly critical of the way in which he handled the referendum campaign.
Jean Claude-Juncker, the president of the European Commission, was particularly scathing, saying a month before the referendum: "I'm reading in [the] papers that Boris Johnson spent part of his life in Brussels. It's time for him to come back to Brussels, in order to check in Brussels if everything he's telling British people is in line with reality. I don't think so."
Martin Selmayr, Mr Juncker's chief of staff, who is widely seen as one of the most powerful men in Brussels, later tweeted: "G7 with Trump, Le Pen, Boris Johnson, Beppe Grillo? A horror scenario that shows why it's worth fighting populism."
It is unclear whether Mr Davis or Mr Johnson will attend the EU meetings for foreign ministers.
Mr Johnson made clear after he dropped out of the leadership race that he would continue to campaign to make sure that Britain's exit from the European Union would be delivered by the next prime minister, and chose to support Mrs Leadsom as she had been a member of the Leave campaign.
The appointment is all the more remarkable because Mrs May and Mr Johnson had been preparing to face one another in the Tory leadership contest. In her speech as the new prime minister, Mrs May made explicit and implicit criticisms of the man she has placed at the top table of her government.
Teasing him over his decision to buy three water cannon from Germany, which she prevented him from deploying on the streets of London, she said: "I seem to remember the last time he did a deal with the Germans he came back with three nearly new water cannon."
She hinted that he viewed politics as a game. "Some need to be told that what the government does isn't a game - it's a serious business that has real consequences for people's lives."
During the referendum campaign, Mr Johnson had criticised the intervention by President Obama, pointing out that he had "Kenyan heritage". The Labour MP Chuka Umunna tweeted: "Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson's first official meeting with President Obama will be interesting. Suggest it starts with the word 'sorry'."
Letters, page 32
'His first meeting with Obama should start with the word sorry' Chuka Umunna


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               45 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Kenny now wants Brexit to start 'as soon as possible' as he talks to May xit to start 'as soon as possible' as he talks to May

BYLINE: Kevin Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 487 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: NEW British prime minister Theresa May should now seek to take the UK out of the European Union "as soon as possible", Taoiseach Enda Kenny has said.
The Taoiseach spoke with Ms May following her appointment last night and discussed what he described as "the important challenges that arise from the recent vote by the UK to leave the European Union".
Mr Kenny, who had previously pleaded with European leaders to give Britain time to adjust to the Brexit vote, has hardened his stance on the issue.
The change in stance comes as the Government prepares to set up a special Cabinet committee on Brexit and restructure the Department of An Taoiseach to allow more staff focus on Anglo-Irish and EU relations.
Mr Kenny noted that no negotiations on Britain's departure from the EU can begin until Mrs May activates Article 50.
In the meantime, Ireland is to "beef up" the numbers of diplomats working in Rome, London, Berlin, Paris and a number of other foreign missions.
In Dublin, a number of staff are to be moved from the Department of An Taoiseach to Foreign Affairs and Trade "to have a more specific focus in the Department of the Taoiseach, assisted by a second Secretary General and staff to focus on Brexit and all that".
Mr Kenny is also to seek an early meeting with Mrs May in order to discuss the situation regarding Northern Ireland, border controls and trade.
"These are all things that will have to be teased out," he said.
"Clearly, we will have to wait and see first of all what the British want: do they want a Norwegian, Swiss, Canadian or Singaporean strategy? "If we have a situation where we have a country remaining in the EU, which is Ireland, and the United Kingdom leaves, we will have some capacity to monitor goods travelling through from the Republic of Ireland to Northern Ireland, that is from an EU country to a country that is not in the EU," said Mr Kenny.
"I do not want to see any hard border or the checkpoints that were there for many years. We do not want to see that."
Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin also called on the new prime minister to trigger Article 50 "sooner rather than later".
"There appears to be a developing idea in certain sections of the Tory party that the timing for triggering Article 50 is to be used as a negotiating weapon.
"That is of no help to anybody. We cannot all be held to ransom, particularly by the people who demanded Brexit, while they try to figure out what they meant and what they want," he said.
Mr Martin said that the uncertainty could cause "economic harm and can damage the global economic situation, particularly the situation in Europe".
He went on to criticise the outgoing prime minister David Cameron, alleging that he had "neglected Northern Ireland to an excessive degree and he probably indulged anti-European Union rhetoric too much". "David Cameron leaves office having unfortunately presided over the débâcle of the Brexit referendum," he added.
Graphic
Taoiseach Enda Kenny to restructure his department


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); NORWAY (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               46 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Legacy bound to be forever in Brexit shadow

BYLINE: Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 923 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: David Cameron sought last night to rescue his legacy from being remembered solely as the prime minister who took Britain out of the European Union.
Speaking outside No 10 for the final time, he focused on his record on "turning around the economy", helping the jobless and low paid, children in care, schools, the NHS, gay marriage and foreign aid spending. There was only a brief mention of the EU referendum, though the fateful decision to hold the vote and the outcome in favour of Brexit will define his tenure.
If Theresa May succeeds in fulfilling her promise to make a success of Brexit he will be seen as a windy doomsayer who tried to deny Britain a more prosperous freedom. The more Brexit is shown to cause the economic damage and diplomatic enfeeblement that he predicted, the greater the stain on his reputation for allowing it to occur.
An assessment of his six years in charge demands a wider look at the full spectrum of his policies, however.
economy The global economic crash in 2008 caught Mr Cameron as unaware as the rest of the British political establishment but his response defined his premiership.
A promise to "share the proceeds of growth" between public spending and tax cuts embarrassingly redundant in a recession was quickly ditched.
Instead Mr Cameron fought the 2010 general election on a promise to cut "the bulk" of Britain's current account deficit within five years. Six years on, the deficit stands at £74.9 billion.
defence Unlike Tony Blair Mr Cameron did not commit Britain to any lengthy and unpopular wars but his interventions had mixed success.
Libya was his first major military action, and he was greeted as a hero with Nicolas Sarkozy, who was then the president of France, after Colonel Gaddafi had been removed, but the country descended into violence.
In 2013 Mr Cameron was defeated in a Commons vote on launching airstrikes against President Assad of Syria. It would be two years before he was able to convince MPs to support action in Syria against Islamic State, the terrorist group that came to pose the greatest security threat during his premiership.
foreign policy The Foreign and Commonwealth Office was recast as part of a new trade-focused mercantile foreign policy to woo economic giants such as India and China as trading partners. It has so far failed to secure significant change.
In his speech he highlighted his commitment to spend 0.7 per cent of Britain's GDP on foreign aid, saying that without it people around the world would not have clean drinking water or the chance to go to school. Some would not "even be alive".
Attempts to overhaul Britain's membership of the EU failed, leading to Brexit, which many foreign leaders warned would lead Britain diminished on the world stage.
health Having arrived in office on a promise not to introduce top-down reorganisation of the NHS, within months he waved through Andrew Lansley's plans for an overhaul, triggering two years of coalition battles and a bill of more than £1 billion for abolishing hundreds of bodies and laying off thousands of staff, many of whom were immediately rehired.
In retrospect the most important change made was giving day-to-day independence to NHS England, whose chief executive, Simon Stevens, has spent the past two years undoing most of Mr Lansley's changes while becoming a prominent voice in the political debate.
Mr Cameron's biggest legacy might turn out to be failing to properly fund care for an ageing population, with increases in the NHS budget not keeping pace with growing demand from older, sicker patients.
law and order One of the first acts on coming to power was to scrap plans for ID cards. Elected police and crime commissioners were less successful, attracting an turnout of 15 per cent in some areas.
Mr Cameron refused to drop his target to cut net migration to the "tens of thousands", despite reaching record levels of more than 333,000 a year and dominating the EU referendum debate.
A programme of prison reform was launched, funding seven huge jails to enable the proposed closure of Victorian prisons while introducing payment by results for offenders on probation. It is too soon to know wether it will work.
education Mr Cameron promised to be the "heir to Blair", continuing New Labour's policy of turning failing schools into semi-independent academies. There are now 5,188 academies, including most of England's secondary schools, though plans to force the rest to change were dropped after stiff opposition.
There are also 304 free schools: new academies independent of local authorities opened by sponsors to give parents greater choice of schools. About 200 more applications to create such schools are awaiting approval.
Higher education has also changed radically under Mr Cameron. Tuition fees were trebled to £9,000 but lifting a cap on student admissions means that tens of thousands more applicants a year get into their top choice of university.
Additional reporting by Henry Zeffman, Richard Ford Greg Hurst and Chris Smyth Tim Montgomerie, page 33 Whatever he decides to do next, David Cameron's future is probably not in teaching. The former prime minister, above with Samantha in 1995 and with Norman Lamont in 1993, right, has had plenty of memorable moments - from his first joint press conference with Nick Clegg in the Downing Street garden in 2010 to his trip to the pub with President Xi of China last year, via the Great Brook Run. He was presumably less happy to be caught changing on a Cornwall beach in 2013 and attempting a high five with President Obama
Graphic
PAUL HACKETT/AP; STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA; ROB MCMILLAN/REX; APEX; CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES; ANDY RAIN/EPA; RUPERT HARTLEY/REX SHUTTERSTOCK; CHRISTOPHER FURLONG/PA


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); LIBYA (79%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               47 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Looking to Churchill for Brexit answers If in doubt, maybe it's best to do nothing. Brendan Keenan, p4 [...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 17 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Looking to Churchill for Brexit answers If in doubt, maybe it's best to do nothing. Brendan Keenan, p4


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               48 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: March of the sisterhood - from Brexit to the White House

BYLINE: Roula Khalaf

SECTION: NOTEBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 700 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Are women about to rule the world? You might think so if you've been watching the schoolboy squabbles over Brexit that felled several of Britain's leading political men in the wake of the EU referendum. You might get the same impression if you are watching the race for the White House, where the male Republican candidate threatens to upend the international order while his female Democratic rival offers the only chance of continuity, if not sanity.
In fact, Theresa May , the grown-up of British politics, was only catapulted to the top of both the Conservative party and the government this week after her male colleagues spectacularly self-destructed. And if the not-so-popular Hillary Clinton , the first female Democratic nominee, is elected president in November, it will be in no small part because Donald Trump proved too outrageous even for those yearning for someone outrageously different.
But imagine Mrs Clinton in the Oval Office, Mrs May in Downing Street , with Angela Merkel in charge in Germany, Christine Lagarde at the helm of the International Monetary Fund, and probably a female secretary-general of the UN by the end of the year, and the world suddenly looks quite different.
In Britain the march of the sisterhood has been accelerated by the EU referendum . Angela Eagle, a chess champion and former shadow business secretary, is challenging Jeremy Corbyn for the leadership of the opposition Labour party. Though her chances look slim, she is right to say "it's about time" a party that purports to be a champion of equality "had a woman leader". Scotland has two impressive women at the top: Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish National party first minister, and Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish Conservatives. Northern Ireland has Arlene Foster as first minister.
So what, you might ask. Look around the world and these women are the exception rather than the rule. UN data about women's participation highlight the gender inequality. Figures from 2015 show that only 22 per cent of all national MPs were female, disappointingly slow progress from about 11 per cent two decades earlier. The same data show that 11 women served as heads of state and 10 as heads of government. Women lag far behind when it comes to cabinet positions, too: only 17 per cent of ministers are women, most of them in charge of areas such as education and the family.
Researchers find that the gender gap in politics is exacerbated by entrenched attitudes. Women are less interested in politics and less exposed to political information. Female politicians also suffer from stereotyping, with disproportionate attention paid to their appearance.
They are subjected to questions that are irrelevant to men and should be equally irrelevant to women, says Professor Donatella Campus of the university of Bologna. If they have children, they are asked whether they have time for politics; if they do not have children, they are deemed too ambitious. Sometimes women fall for the stereotype, as illustrated by the dramatic downfall of Andrea Leadsom. Her leadership challenge to Mrs May collapsed after she claimed that her rival, who has no children, had less of a stake in Britain's future.
True, women leaders are not always good for women. Margaret Thatcher, the first woman elected UK prime minister, used to say: "If you want something done ask a woman; if you want something said ask a man." But she was no feminist and she appointed only one woman to her cabinet. Ms Merkel has done better but she, too, has been criticised for not putting women's issues top of her agenda. Mrs Clinton , meanwhile, is passionately disliked by younger women.
Mrs May, however, promises to be different and her record suggests she could succeed. She is co-founder of Women2Win, a campaign to elect more Conservative women. Despite the scale of her task - to unite a bitterly divided country and party while charting the UK's future relationship with Europe - she has already indicated that women's political advancement will not be ignored on her watch. And, amid increasing speculation about the composition of her cabinet, she has let it be known that she will appoint women to senior positions.
roula.khalaf@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); GB United Kingdom; US United States of America; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               49 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May needs to quieten the Brexit squall to chart a safe course

BYLINE: Martin Gilbert

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 676 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Much has happened since the UK referendum . Politicians have come and gone, and we have a new prime minister. Markets have whipsawed. All of this has led to a whiff of panic. It is a time for a bit of calm and for politicians to chart a safe course for the country.
Some have made dire predictions about the country's borrowing costs. Standard & Poor's, a rating agency, has downgraded the UK's credit rating. They forget that Moody's already downgraded the UK three years ago. Only two of the world's largest bond markets (the US and Germany) are AAA rated. The downgrades make very little difference to the economy.
Others point to Brexit as the cause for big banks to shift jobs from the City of London. The reality is that banks are simply trying to manage costs and have been for years. Low interest rates have hit profitability and new regulations are costing them a lot of money. One of the largest banks has seen costs reach more than £2bn a year.
Any prudent bank chief executive would be looking at costs regardless of Brexit. But that does not mean Armageddon for the UK's financial services industry. HSBC announced it was relocating its UK retail operations and 1,000 jobs to Birmingham to save costs. That is good for the country as a whole. But both Barclays and HSBC have recently reasserted London's pre-eminence as the centre of the financial world.
The level of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 have been widely, and often erroneously, cited as solid evidence of how the economy is faring. The FTSE 100 is up since the referendum and is not a bellwether for the economy. The FTSE 250 is down 10 per cent. It is considered a better barometer of the UK's economic health. But there are reams of academic evidence that debunk the idea that there is a correlation between equity indices and economic growth.
Sterling is down 12 per cent against the dollar. But it has been overvalued versus other currencies for some time. The record current deficit of around 7 per cent of GDP is testament to this.
The suspension of trading of a number of open-ended property funds has led to comparisons with the collapse of Lehman Brothers, which triggered a similar suspension of trading. But the trigger for suspensions then was banks cutting off financing to the commercial property sector.
That hasn't happened. Rather, a rush of investors wanting to take their money out of these funds has made it impossible to accurately value the properties in the portfolio. Once one closes, it usually has a domino effect on the others.
Moreover, the world economy is very different to when Lehman collapsed. Reform of the banking sector has been extensive. These institutions have to hold much more, and better quality, capital than was previously the case.
They can deploy that capital if the economy does sour but the fact they have it in the first place makes the economy more resilient. Central banks now test balance sheets for stresses, and ones much greater than they currently face.
The Bank of England has been impressively proactive since the referendum. It is being so for good reason. Brexit will hurt the economy in the short term. The danger now is that businesses stop investing and consumers stop spending.
Investment and spending are the fuel in the economy and without it the machine will grind to a halt. Some of it will probably be put off but how much, and for how long, will largely depend on what politicians do next.
Hopefully things will calm sooner rather than later.
It is positive that we have a new prime minister. Markets abhor a vacuum and that particular one is now fixed. Businesses need to keep investing for the long term and consumers need to keep spending within their means.
The UK remains a member of the EU for the time being and companies continue to benefit from being able to trade within a free market. Workers and consumers continue to be afforded the same protections as before the vote. The most important thing that we can all do right now is to try to look through the noise.
Martin Gilbert is chief executive of Aberdeen Asset Management


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); GERMANY (79%); DE Germany; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               50 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's appointment as PM paves way for clear sequence of Brexit steps; Exit could be drawn out as Downing Street not in rush to trigger article 50

BYLINE: Suzanne Lynch

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 758 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The appointment of Theresa May as British prime minister has brought a sliver of clarity to the complex process that has emerged from the British referendum.
Former prime minister David Cameron said in June it would fall to his successor to navigate Britain's exit negotiations. With the appointment of May as prime minister this week rather than at the Conservative Party conference in September, that process has been brought forward by two months. 
The former home secretary is well-known in Brussels. As Britain's longest-running home secretary she regularly attended justice and home affairs council meetings in Brussels and Luxembourg, though her tough line on refugees put her at odds with the push from the European Commission and Berlin last year for greater burden-sharing among EU member states. 
Unlike Ireland, Britain did not opt in to the EU's relocation plan. Instead, May was one of the most vocal opponents, arguing that nothing should be done to encourage more people to journey to Europe. With free movement and immigration set to become the central issue for Britain in its forthcoming negotiations, the new prime minister is likely to drive a hard bargain.
Collision course
 Though well-respected as a pragmatic, albeit right-wing, operator, May has indicated she will not be rushed into a swift invocation of article 50, potentially setting her on a collision course with Brussels.  
European Parliament president Martin Schulz has already called for exit negotiations to start quickly. "Now that the country has full clarity on its new prime minister, after the summer I expect the British government to notify its intention to withdraw the UK from the EU," he wrote this week. 
May, in contrast, has said she will not trigger article 50 until next year.The nomination this week of Julian King, a former British ambassador to Ireland, to replace Jonathan Hill, the British commissioner who resigned in the wake of the British referendum, suggests Britain is embedding itself in the EU decision-making process for the medium term at least. 
The prospect of long, drawn-out discussions were raised by outgoing foreign secretary Philip Hammond, who told the House of Commons on Tuesday the exit process could take six years. 
Most significantly, the appointment of May may have killed off any hope the British vote could be reversed. Ironically, despite the fact May campaigned to remain, she will be more likely to implement the vote as she tries to appease leavers in the government who believe that a Brexiteer should be leading the country. 
Her remarks on Monday were clear. "There will be no attempts to remain inside the EU, no attempts to rejoin it by the back door, and no second referendum," she said to cheers. "Brexit means Brexit."
For the EU, apart from exerting political pressure on Britain, there is little to be done before Britain triggers article 50, though at a diplomatic level discussions are under way between the 27 members ahead of their summit in Bratislava in September.
Taoiseach Enda Kenny's visit to Berlin on Tuesday is one of a series of bilateral meetings that will take place in the coming weeks and months. François Hollande's trip to Dublin next Thursday is one stage in a wider post-Brexit tour by the French president, who visits Portugal on Tuesday and Austria and Slovakia on Wednesday. 
Surge in support
 As the EU wisely lets the Westminster drama play out before committing itself to further pronouncements on the future of Europe, there was some positive news for Brussels this week.  
A number of polls showed that, rather than triggering a wave of Eurosceptic sentiment across the continent, the immediate impact of the British referendum result has been to shore up support for the European project. 
In Germany, right-wing party Alternative for Deutschland (Afd) has seen its support fall, while Chancellor Angela Merkel's popularity ratings have hit a 10-month high. A poll in the Netherlands showed a drop in support for Geert Wilders's Freedom Party. Similar trends were evident in Denmark and Finland, where support for the EU has increased since the Brexit vote. 
While the trend could be a short-term reaction to the shock referendum result, the first real test for the EU project will be the rerun of the Austrian presidential election on October 2nd following the narrow defeat of the far-right candidate in May. 
This will be the first opportunity to see how Britain's vote to leave the EU impacts on the ballot box, as the EU comes to terms with a future without its second-largest economy.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (92%); LUXEMBOURG (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               51 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's clean break; ? Osborne sacked as Hammond made chancellor ? Johnson is surprise foreign secretary ? Brexit backers get cabinet roles

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 829 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER JACK HILL Theresa May sacked the chancellor and promoted Boris Johnson to foreign secretary yesterday as she promised to lead a "country that works not for a privileged few but for every one of us".
In a clean split from the past which left Westminster stunned, she handed one of the great offices of state to Mr Johnson, the former London mayor. A leading Brexit campaigner, he had been frontrunner to become prime minister until his ally Michael Gove torpedoed his chances by standing against him.
Mr Johnson has made a series of outspoken comments. In 2007 he compared Hillary Clinton to a "sadistic nurse in a mental hospital", saying that she represented "everything I came into politics to oppose". She is now running to become American president. In April he suggested that President Obama's backing for Britain remaining in the EU was down to his "part-Kenyan" ancestry.
Mr Osborne, the longstanding chancellor, was cast out of government. Officially he resigned his post last night but it is understood that the new prime minister made clear that he would be consigned to the back benches. David Davis, the veteran Eurosceptic, was made the head of a new department dedicated to taking the UK out of the European Union while Liam Fox, who resigned as defence secretary in 2011, was handed control of a remodelled trade department to forge new economic links around the world.
Speaking to the nation for the first time as prime minister, Mrs May said that she would lead Britain through "a time of great national change" by safeguarding the UK in the face of threats by Scottish Nationalists to force a second independence referendum.
She served notice to Labour that she would be a champion for working-class Britons in an uncompromising message on social and economic reform.
Addressing those struggling to make ends meet, she said: "The government I lead will be driven not by the interests of the privileged few but by yours. We will do everything we can to give you more control over your lives.
"When we take the big calls we will think not of the powerful, but you. When we pass new laws we will listen not to the mighty, but to you. When it comes to taxes we will prioritise not the wealthy, but you.
"When it comes to opportunity we won't entrench the advantages of the fortunate few, we will do everything we can to help anybody, whatever your background, to go as far as your talents will take you."
Mrs May's camp said on Tuesday that she intended to ensure a record number of women in her top team, including in prominent positions.
With the first six full-time cabinet posts revealed last night, Amber Rudd was the only woman appointed. She was made home secretary to replace Mrs May. For the other most senior positions the prime minister turned to established male figures, including two veterans of the Tory right surprisingly recalled to the front line.
Philip Hammond moved from foreign secretary to become chancellor. A fiscal hawk and Remain campaigner, he has the task of coping with the effects of Brexit, which he said earlier this year would have a "chilling effect" on the economy. Michael Fallon stays as defence secretary. In what appeared to be an attempt to balance her team, Mrs May, who also campaigned for Remain, handed a new role - secretary of state for exiting the EU - to Mr Davis, a former shadow home secretary and Tory leadership candidate.
Dr Fox has a new role as international trade secretary, in what appears to spell the end for the department for business innovation and skills. There is as yet no sign of a job for Mrs May's leadership rival Andrea Leadsom, whose dramatic capitulation on Monday led to yesterday's coronation.
Mr Osborne was seen leaving Downing Street by the back entrance. Mr Gove, the justice secretary, will learn his fate today. Justine Greening and Chris Grayling, Mrs May's campaign chiefs, appear to have missed out on front-rank cabinet positions.
David Cameron, flanked by his family, bid an emotional goodbye with passionate praise for Britain's "spirit of service" and a stout defence of his six years in power. A little over an hour later Mrs May paid generous tribute to her predecessor while stamping her own authority on the government. In a short address on the steps of No 10 she first confronted Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's first minister, making clear that she had no intention of allowing a second independence referendum in the wake of the Brexit vote.
"We believe in the Union, the precious, precious bond between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland," she said. That belief extended not just to the "union ... between the nations of the UK but between all of our citizens, every one of us, whoever we are and wherever we're from."
She added: "Britain's decision to leave the EU meant that the country faced a a time of great national change. And I know because we're Great Britain we will rise to the challenge."
News and analysis, pages 4-13 Leading article, page 33
Graphic
Theresa May and her husband, Philip, at No 10 yesterday. She said that she would be a champion of working-class Britons


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               52 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's clean break; Osborne sacked as Hammond made chancellor ? Johnson is surprise foreign secretary ? Brexit backers get cabinet roles

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May sacked the chancellor and promoted Boris Johnson to foreign secretary yesterday as she promised to lead a "country that works not for a privileged few but for every one of us".
In a clean split from the past which left Westminster stunned, she handed one of the great offices of state to Mr Johnson, the former London mayor. A leading Brexit campaigner, he had been frontrunner to become prime minister until his ally Michael Gove torpedoed his chances by standing against him.
Mr Johnson has made a series of outspoken comments. In 2007 he compared Hillary Clinton to a "sadistic nurse in a mental hospital". In April he suggested that President Obama backing for Britain remaining in the EU was down to his "part-Kenyan" ancestry.
Mr Osborne, the longstanding chancellor, was cast out of government. Officially he resigned his post last night but it is understood that the new prime minister made clear that he would be consigned to the back benches. David Davis, the veteran Eurosceptic, was made the head of a new department dedicated to taking the UK out of the European Union while Liam Fox, who resigned as defence secretary in 2011, was handed control of a remodelled trade department to forge new economic links around the world.
Speaking to the nation for the first time as prime minister, Mrs May said that she would lead Britain through "a time of great national change" by safeguarding the UK in the face of threats by Scottish Nationalists to force a second independence referendum.
She served notice to Labour that she would be a champion for working-class Britons in an uncompromising message on social and economic reform. Addressing those struggling to make ends meet, she said: "The government I lead will be driven not by the interests of the privileged few but by yours. We will do everything we can to give you more control over your lives.
"When we take the big calls we will think not of the powerful, but you. When we pass new laws we will listen not to the mighty, but to you. When it comes to taxes we will prioritise not the wealthy, but you.
"When it comes to opportunity we won't entrench the advantages of the fortunate few, we will do everything we can to help anybody, whatever your background, to go as far as your talents will take you."
Mrs May's camp said on Tuesday that she intended to ensure a record number of women in her top team, including in prominent positions.
With the first six full-time cabinet posts revealed last night, Amber Rudd was the only woman appointed. She was made home secretary to replace Mrs May. For the other most senior positions the prime minister turned to established male figures, including two veterans of the Tory right.
Philip Hammond moved from foreign secretary to become chancellor. A fiscal hawk and Remain campaigner, he has the task of coping with the effects of Brexit, which he said earlier this year would have a "chilling effect" on the economy. Michael Fallon stays as defence secretary. In what appeared to be an attempt to balance her team, Mrs May, who also campaigned for Remain, handed a new role - secretary of state for exiting the EU - to Mr Davis, a former shadow home secretary and Tory leadership candidate.
Dr Fox has a new role as international trade secretary, in what appears to spell the end for the department for business innovation and skills. There is as yet no sign of a job for Mrs May's leadership rival Andrea Leadsom, whose dramatic capitulation on Monday led to yesterday's coronation.
Mr Osborne was seen leaving Downing Street by the back entrance. Mr Gove, the justice secretary, will learn his fate today. Justine Greening and Chris Grayling, Mrs May's campaign chiefs, appear to have missed out on front-rank cabinet positions.
David Cameron, flanked by his family, bid an emotional goodbye with praise for Britain's "spirit of service" and a stout defence of his six years in power. A little over an hour later Mrs May paid tribute to her predecessor while stamping her own authority on the government. In a short address on the steps of No 10 she first confronted Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's first minister, making clear that she had no intention of allowing a second independence referendum in the wake of the Brexit vote.
"We believe in the Union, the precious, precious bond between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland," she said. That belief extended not just to the "union ... between the nations of the UK but between all of our citizens, every one of us, whoever we are and wherever we're from."
She added: "Britain's decision to leave the EU meant that the country faced a a time of great national change. And I know because we're Great Britain we will rise to the challenge."
News and analysis, pages 4-13 Leading article, page 21 First appointments Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond Foreign secretary Boris Johnson Home secretary Amber Rudd Defence secretary Michael Fallon (reappointed) Secretary of state for Brexit David Davis International trade secretary Liam Fox
Graphic
Theresa May and her husband, Philip, at No 10 yesterday. She said that she would be a champion of working-class BritonsTIMES PHOTOGRAPHER JACK


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               53 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's clean break; Osborne sacked as Hammond made chancellor ? Johnson is surprise foreign secretary ? Brexit backers get cabinet roles

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May sacked the chancellor and promoted Boris Johnson to foreign secretary yesterday as she promised to lead a "country that works not for a privileged few but for every one of us".
In a clean split from the past which left Westminster stunned, she handed one of the great offices of state to Mr Johnson, the former London mayor. A leading Brexit campaigner, he had been frontrunner to become prime minister until his ally Michael Gove torpedoed his chances by standing against him.
Mr Johnson has made a series of outspoken comments. In 2007 he compared Hillary Clinton to a "sadistic nurse in a mental hospital", saying that she represented "everything I came into politics to oppose". She is now running to become American president. In April he suggested that President Obama's backing for Britain remaining in the EU was down to his "part-Kenyan" ancestry.
Mr Osborne, the longstanding chancellor, was cast out of government. Officially he resigned his post last night but it is understood that the new prime minister made clear that he would be consigned to the back benches. David Davis, the veteran Eurosceptic, was made the head of a new department dedicated to taking the UK out of the European Union while Liam Fox, who resigned as defence secretary in 2011, was handed control of a remodelled trade department to forge new economic links around the world.
Speaking to the nation for the first time as prime minister, Mrs May said that she would lead Britain through "a time of great national change" by safeguarding the UK in the face of threats by Scottish Nationalists to force a second independence referendum.
She served notice to Labour that she would be a champion for working-class Britons in an uncompromising message on social and economic reform. Addressing those struggling to make ends meet, she said: "The government I lead will be driven not by the interests of the privileged few but by yours. We will do everything we can to give you more control over your lives. When we take the big calls we will think not of the powerful, but you. When we pass new laws we will listen not to the mighty, but to you. When it comes to taxes we will prioritise not the wealthy, but you.
"When it comes to opportunity we won't entrench the advantages of the fortunate few, we will do everything we can to help anybody, whatever your background, to go as far as your talents will take you."
Mrs May's camp said on Tuesday that she intended to ensure a record number of women in her top team, including in prominent positions.
With the first six full-time cabinet posts revealed last night, Amber Rudd was the only woman appointed. She was made home secretary to replace Mrs May. For the other most senior positions the prime minister turned to established male figures, including two veterans of the Tory right surprisingly recalled to the front line.
Philip Hammond moved from foreign secretary to become chancellor. A fiscal hawk and Remain campaigner, he has the task of coping with the effects of Brexit, which he said earlier this year would have a "chilling effect" on the economy. Michael Fallon stays as defence secretary. In what appeared to be an attempt to balance her team, Mrs May, who also campaigned for Remain, handed a new role - secretary of state for exiting the EU - to Mr Davis, a former shadow home secretary and Tory leadership candidate.
Dr Fox has a new role as international trade secretary, in what appears to spell the end for the department for business innovation and skills. There is as yet no sign of a job for Mrs May's leadership rival Andrea Leadsom.
Mr Osborne was seen leaving Downing Street by the back entrance. Mr Gove, the justice secretary, will learn his fate today. Justine Greening and Chris Grayling, Mrs May's campaign chiefs, appear to have missed out on front-rank cabinet positions.
David Cameron, flanked by his family, bid an emotional goodbye with passionate praise for Britain's "spirit of service" and a stout defence of his six years in power. A little over an hour later Mrs May paid generous tribute to her predecessor. In a short address on the steps of No 10 she first confronted Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister, making clear that she had no intention of allowing a second independence referendum in the wake of the Brexit vote. "We believe in the Union, the precious, precious bond between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland," she said. That belief extended not just to the "union ... between the nations of the UK but between all of our citizens, every one of us, whoever we are and wherever we're from."
She added: "Britain's decision to leave the EU meant that the country faced a a time of great national change. And I know because we're Great Britain we will rise to the challenge."
News and analysis, pages 4-13 Leading article, page 35
Graphic
TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER JACK HILLTheresa May and her husband, Philip, at No 10 yesterday. She said that she would be a champion of working-class Britons


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               54 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's clean break; Osborne sacked as Hammond made chancellor ? Johnson is surprise foreign secretary ? Brexit backers get cabinet roles

BYLINE: Elliott Political

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May sacked the chancellor and promoted Boris Johnson to foreign secretary yesterday as she promised to lead a "country that works not for a privileged few but for every one of us".
In a clean split from the past that left Westminster stunned, she handed one of the great offices of state to Mr Johnson, the former London mayor. A leading Brexit campaigner, he had been frontrunner to become prime minister until his ally Michael Gove torpedoed his chances by standing against him.
Mr Johnson has made a series of outspoken comments. In 2007 he compared Hillary Clinton to a "sadistic nurse in a mental hospital". She is now running to become American president. In April he suggested that President Obama's backing for Britain remaining in the EU was down to his "part-Kenyan" ancestry.
George Osborne, the longstanding chancellor, was cast out of government. Officially he resigned his post last night but it is understood that the new prime minister made clear that he would be consigned to the back benches. David Davis, a former shadow home secretary and Tory leadership candidate, was made the head of a new department dedicated to taking the UK out of the European Union while Liam Fox, who resigned as defence secretary in 2011 after taking a close friend on official foreign trips, was handed control of a remodelled trade department to forge new economic links around the world.
Speaking to the nation for the first time as prime minister, Mrs May said that she would lead Britain through "a time of great national change".
She served notice to Labour that she would be a champion for working-class Britons in an uncompromising message on social and economic reform. Addressing those struggling to make ends meet, she said: "The government I lead will be driven not by the interests of the privileged few but by yours. We will do everything we can to give you more control over your lives.
"When we take the big calls we will think not of the powerful, but you. When we pass new laws we will listen not to the mighty, but to you. When it comes to taxes we will prioritise not the wealthy, but you."
Mrs May's camp said on Tuesday that she intended to ensure a record number of women in her top team. With the first six full-time cabinet posts revealed last night, Amber Rudd was the only woman appointed. She was made home secretary to replace Mrs May. For the other most senior positions the prime minister turned to established male figures, including two veterans of the Tory right recalled to the front line.
Philip Hammond moved from foreign secretary to become chancellor. A fiscal hawk and Remain campaigner, he has the task of coping with the effects of Brexit, which he said earlier this year would have a "chilling effect" on the economy. Michael Fallon stays as defence secretary. In what appeared to be an attempt to balance her team, Mrs May, who backed Remain, handed a new role - secretary of state for exiting the EU - to Mr Davis, the veteran Eurosceptic.
Dr Fox has a new role as international trade secretary, in what appears to spell the end for the department for business innovation and skills. There was no sign of a job for Mrs May's leadership rival Andrea Leadsom, whose dramatic capitulation on Monday led to yesterday's coronation.
Mr Osborne was seen leaving Downing Street by the back entrance. Mr Gove, the justice secretary, will learn his fate today. Justine Greening and Chris Grayling, Mrs May's campaign chiefs, appeared to have missed out on front-rank cabinet positions.
David Cameron, flanked by his family, bid an emotional goodbye with a stout defence of his six years in power. A little over an hour later Mrs May paid tribute to her predecessor while stamping her own authority on the government. In a short address on the steps of No 10 she confronted Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's first minister, making clear that she had no intention of allowing a second independence referendum. "We believe in the Union, the precious, precious bond between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland," she said. That belief extended not just to the union "between the nations of the UK, but between all of our citizens, every one of us, whoever we are and wherever we're from."
She added: "Britain's decision to leave the EU meant that the country faced a a time of great national change. And I know because we're Great Britain we will rise to the challenge."
Last night President Hollande of France congratulated Mrs May and "reiterated his wish for the negotiations on Britain's departure from the European Union to be undertaken as soon as possible", the president's office said.
Mrs May also spoke to the German Chancellor Angela Merkel and said that her government would need time before beginning talks on Britain's exit from the EU. "The prime minister emphasised her commitment to delivering the will of the British people to leave the European Union," a spokeswoman for Mrs May said.
News and analysis, pages 4-13 Leading article, page 33 First appointments Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond Foreign secretary Boris Johnson Home secretary Amber Rudd Defence secretary Michael Fallon (reappointed) Secretary of state for Brexit David Davis International trade secretary Liam Fox
Graphic
Theresa May and her husband, Philip, at No 10 yesterday. She said she would be a champion of working-class BritonsMay and her JUSTIN TALLIS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               55 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May signals that Brexit campaigners will shoulder burden of leaving EU; Hammond seen as safe pair of hands at Treasury while Osborne leaves government after 6 years

BYLINE: George Parker and Kate Allen

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Philip Hammond has been named as Britain's new chancellor and Boris Johnson as foreign secretary, as Theresa May begins a radical reshaping of the government for the Brexit era.
Mr Hammond, the technocratic foreign secretary and a fiscal hawk, was the first minister to walk down Downing Street as Mrs May turned to one of the cabinet's safest pair of hands to manage the country's fragile economy.
Meanwhile, Mrs May shocked many at Westminster by naming Mr Johnson, leader of the Brexit campaign, as her new foreign secretary, charged with building economic ties beyond Europe.
In another sign that Mrs May wants Brexiters to shoulder the burden of delivering the "opportunities" of leaving the EU, David Davis, a former Europe minister, was made "Brexit minister", in charge of negotiating the exit.
Liam Fox, another veteran of the Eurosceptic right, is given a new role as international trade minister, in charge of delivering the trade deals that Brexiters claimed would be available if Britain left the EU.
In a statement issued shortly after 7pm, Downing Street announced that George Osborne was leaving the government after six years as chancellor, and that Mr Hammond would take his place.
Mrs May dashed the chancellor's hopes that he be offered a job swap with Mr Hammond at the Foreign Office.
Mrs May, who clashed repeatedly with Mr Osborne in cabinet, is understood to have told him that she did not want him in her government. The outgoing chancellor is loathed by many Tory Brexiters. Mr Osborne tweeted: "It has been a privilege to be chancellor these last six years. Others will judge - I hope I've left the economy in a better state than I found it."
Mr Hammond, known by some Tory MPs as "spreadsheet Phil", is a former businessman with a dry approach to economics and with strong City connections.
On Tuesday, he urged banks to "get behind the City" while rubbishing the idea of the City being "uprooted with mud dropping off its roots" and transplanted to another EU city.
Mr Hammond will offer some reassurance to the City that the government remains committed to sound public finances, even though Mrs May has announced the abandonment of the government's 2020 surplus target.
However, his free market instincts do not sit easily with Mrs May's plan for more state intervention in the economy, the insertion of workers on company boards and her criticism of capitalist excess.
Mr Osborne has been chancellor since 2010 and was David Cameron's shadow chancellor from 2005. His departure marks a watershed in Conservative economic policy.
He had hoped to continue in the government either as foreign secretary or perhaps as a trade representative, continuing to build commercial ties with China and other economies.
But Nick Timothy, Mrs May's policy adviser, has been strongly critical of Mr Osborne's approach to China, claiming he was putting commercial interests ahead of human rights and security.
Less than two hours after Mrs May entered Downing Street there were gasps of surprise as Mr Johnson appeared at the door of Number 10, his hands in his pockets, to be appointed foreign secretary.
The move is a bold gesture of reconciliation by Mrs May, who has also clashed with the former London mayor on numerous occasions, notably over her refusal to let him deploy water cannon on the capital's streets.
Mr Johnson will not have responsibility for Brexit negotiations: that task will fall to David Davis a dedicated Brexit minister. Instead the foreign secretary will be responsible for Britain's relations outside Europe, including seeking new trade deals with countries including China and India.
The post could suit Mr Johnson, who travelled extensively in both countries during his time as London mayor, and who is instinctively an internationalist free trader.
By putting a Brexiter in the Foreign Office, Mrs May was also seeking to avoid any accusations that the diplomatic service, traditionally strongly pro-EU, might try to sabotage the Brexit negotiations.
Meanwhile, Amber Rudd, energy secretary, has been promoted to home secretary, confirming Mrs May's intention to place women in some of the most senior jobs in her government.
Ms Rudd, a rising star of the government who was one of the leading faces of the Remain campaign, will be charged with trying to control immigration at the department run by Mrs May for the past six years.
She will also be expected to give a liberal flavour to the Home Office and she is likely to continue Mrs May's agenda of police reforms.
In a cabinet undergoing major surgery, there was some continuity as Mrs May announced that Michael Fallon would remain as defence secretary.
Mr Fallon has overseen British military operations in war-torn Syria and will next week lead the government's case for renewing the Trident nuclear deterrent.
Quartet of senior posts
Chancellor Philip Hammond
Home secretary Amber Rudd
Foreign secretary Boris Johnson
'Brexit minister' David Davis


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               56 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May sweeps into Downing Street with Hammond as chancellor;   Johnson takes Foreign Office   Davis to lead Brexit talks   Rudd named home secretary

BYLINE: George Parker, Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has entered Number 10 with a promise to address the country's deep divisions, ruling not "for the privileged few" but for people who felt that they were losing control of their lives.
Within hours of becoming the UK's second female prime minister, Mrs May made her first cabinet appointments by installing Philip Hammond as chancellor and Boris Johnson as foreign secretary. George Osborne left the government, making way for the former foreign secretary who has long harboured an ambition to move to the Treasury.
Mrs May spoke only fleetingly about last month's Brexit vote as she addressed the nation outside Number 10, but her mission statement was aimed squarely at those voters who saw the referendum as a chance to attack the economic establishment.
A low-key fiscal hawk, Mr Hammond is not a natural fit with Mrs May's plan to relax austerity and tackle corporate excess but he will bring business and ministerial experience to the top of government in uncertain times.
David Davis, a Leave campaigner with a long record of Euroscepticism, was appointed to the key new role of secretary of state for leaving the EU.
Mr Johnson, the former London mayor and leading Brexiter who was instrumental in the campaign for the UK to leave the EU, had been assumed politically dead after stepping out of the race as prime minister two weeks ago.
Mrs May comes to power facing the daunting challenge of negotiating Britain's exit from the EU and dealing with the fallout of the Brexit vote that could tip the country into recession.
Yet her focus was on dealing with the deep societal issues that were convulsing many western countries in the era of globalisation, vowing to focus on helping those people who were "just managing" to get by.
The 59-year-old became prime minister following an audience with the Queen at Buckingham Palace. David Cameron, her predecessor, had earlier bade an emotional farewell to Downing Street surrounded by his family.
Mrs May's replacement as home secretary is Amber Rudd, fulfilling the new prime minister's pledge to appoint women to senior roles in her cabinet. Ms Rudd, who was previously energy secretary, was a Remain campaigner and former banker and financial journalist.
Mrs May, who had supported the Remain side in the EU referendum, has vowed to deliver Brexit. However, she said that her overarching aim was to govern as a "One Nation" Conservative.
Her speech in Downing Street contained themes that bore an uncanny resemblance to those championed by Ed Miliband, the former Labour leader who railed about the problems of the "squeezed middle" and the wealth gap - a signal that she intended a clear break with the economic policies of Mr Cameron.
Mrs May said that she would bear down on inequality, framing laws to help the many and "not the mighty" and suggested she would use the tax system to redistribute wealth. She has promised to tackle excessive boardroom pay.
"When it comes to taxes, we will prioritise not the wealthy, but you," she said, referring to those still struggling. "We will do everything we can to give you more control over your lives."
Her comments reflect the powerful populist slogan of the Brexit campaign - "take control" - and appeared to confirm that Mrs May was eager to learn the lessons of the June 23 vote. She wants to lead her party towards a centre ground of politics that has been vacated by a shambolic Labour opposition, but her mission could be severely undermined if Brexit leads to an economic recession.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               57 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 11:21 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Never have we needed diplomacy more. Instead we have Boris Johnson; He has insulted world leaders, and sometimes whole continents, on numerous occasions. And yet, in uncertain post-Brexit times, he is Britain's new public face

BYLINE: Sonia Purnell

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1299 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A gasp of horrified surprise from the Italianate grandeur of the Foreign Office was almost audible last night when the backbench MP Boris Johnson was installed as one of its best-known but least experienced overlords in history.
The new foreign secretary has no ministerial experience, a weakness for headline-grabbing insults of world leaders and a track record of causing upset on overseas trips. Even his recent leave campaign colleagues doubt his credentials as a statesman.
                     Michael Gove referred to him as "an amazing and impressive person" but one apparently not "capable" of building teams or "providing unity". Fellow leaver and one-time Johnson admirer Dominic Raab described our new emissary in chief as " cavalier ".
And just two weeks ago, when the new prime minister, Theresa May, was launching her bid for the Tory leadership, with Johnson still a contender in the race, she commented: "Boris negotiated in Europe. I seem to remember last time he did a deal with the Germans, he came back with three nearly new water cannon."
As successor to such greats as Lord Palmerston and Ernest Bevin, Johnson has also frequently come under fire for not fulfilling that great foreign secretary requirement: doing his homework.
Since Johnson started attending political cabinet after returning to Westminster last year, he has frequently been accused of not reading his briefs, and this continued failure appears to have caused many of the rifts now only too obvious in the leavers camp. One campaign colleague described him as "unbriefable".
When he was attacked in the past for poor grasp of detail during his eight-year stint as mayor of London, he saw fit to respond with such flippant putdowns as " blah blah fishcakes " - hardly suitable language for Britain's representative on the world stage.
Nor has Johnson demonstrated other useful diplomatic skills despite a seemingly neverending series of foreign trips during his time as mayor, so frequent that they led to some staffers joking that he had permanently "checked-out" of City Hall.
Taxpayer-funded visits to such countries as India, China and the United States worked wonders on promoting Brand Boris to a global audience, by jumping into cars, on to subways, or making speeches about Downton Abbey and James Bond. He has been widely received overseas as a celebrity, attracting in some cases crowds of excitable youths entranced by a politician being so, well, un-politician-like.
But details of deals clinched as a direct result of these supposedly trade-related jaunts have not always been entirely forthcoming or that impressive.
And some of his overseas forays have had decidedly negative effects on international relations. When Johnson attended the Beijing Olympics in 2008 he offended his political hosts by apparently ignoring the mayor of the city, wearing his jacket unbuttoned, putting his hand in his pocket, and his casual manner in holding the Olympic flag with only one hand.
Last year he ostentatiously grabbed media attention by posing lying on the ground aiming an AK47 while on yet another overseas foray, this time ostensibly to visit British troops in Iraq. But not only was the stunt considered unbecoming to a mayor of London - let alone to a foreign secretary in waiting - Johnson's behaviour throughout the trip caused consternation in the department he now leads.
He gave the Foreign Office just three weeks to organise a trip for which there was "zero appetite", left his sizeable personal bar bill to be picked up by officials and even demanded a last-minute sightseeing tour. He was granted permission to visit the "front" only if he conducted himself in an "appropriately sombre manner", but broke his word by his unhelpful pose with the gun (which was in due course interpreted as a dig at David Cameron's military strategy).
Yet another trip, this time to the occupied Palestinian territories, ended in embarrassing chaos and had to be cut short amid an escalating row over Johnson's "inaccurate, misinformed and disrespectful" comments about a proposed boycott of Israeli goods. Women's and children's groups cancelled their invitations to Johnson after he dismissed such an idea as "crazy" and prompted by a "few lefty academics in corduroy jackets". It was not one of Britain's most successful interventions in the world's number one troublespot.
There are other historic reasons that Johnson may well find a lukewarm reception in King Charles Street as he settles in to his tennis-court sized office, a lavish relic of an imperial past. Many still recall his description of diplomats as "limp-wristed" with "shy grins" and "corrugated-soled shoes". Indeed, he has been a thorn in the FO's side for the past quarter of a century.
In the 1990s, for instance, the former Conservative foreign secretary Douglas Hurd found that his attempts to negotiate with the EU were frequently trashed by Johnson's  inaccurate and incendiary reporting. Foreign leaders and their staff found the stories offensive, and began to distrust even the most sympathetic or admired British ministers.
"Boris," Hurd said later, "saw it as his duty to make life more difficult for me." Johnson's antics - which he himself has compared to throwing rocks into a glasshouse - were in fact so gravely "undermining the national interest" that the FO set up a special "Boris unit".
"We are dealing with Boris", insisted a senior diplomat of the time, but for several years the FO seemed powerless to stop the "constant headaches" he caused them.
It was not just Johnson's reporting on the EU that has prompted such antipathy, however. There was also distinct unease at his apparent call for an age of neo-imperialism when he wrote an article entitled Cancel the Guilt Trip in which he argued it was "simply not credible" to blame Africa's "mess" on colonialism. Indeed, he opined, the problem is "not that we were once in charge, but that we are not in charge any more".
For a foreign secretary, Johnson harbours an unusual gift for causing offence to as many people as possible. He once had to apologise to the entire country of Papua New Guinea for linking it to cannibalism. His casual use of such terms as "picaninnies" and "water-melon smiles" also hardly rank as international statecraft, but nor do his comments about the very world leaders he will now need to nurture as allies if Britain is to navigate its way through an uncertain post-Brexit world.
President Obama may only have a few months to go in the White House, but he made his distaste for Johnson very clear on his recent visit to Britain after our new foreign secretary suggested that he had moved a bust of Winston Churchill from the Oval Office because of his "part Kenyan" heritage and "ancestral dislike of the British empire".
Johnson did not stop there in his attack on Britain's chief ally, also laying into Obama for "downright hypocrisy" and guarding US sovereignty with "hysterical jealousy" in not forcing the American embassy in London to pay the congestion charges, while urging Britain to hand over money to the EU.
He reserves some of his most colourful insults for women, however, not least Hillary Clinton, who may well soon replace Obama and shares the latter's dislike for Johnson. After comparing her to a " sadistic nurse in a mental hospital " in 2007, he admitted that it was "amazing" that she had later agreed to meet him when he travelled to the US while still mayor of London. It is nevertheless common gossip in Washington that she has neither forgotten nor forgiven his remarks.
A former colleague of Johnson's once said that like Palmerston, he had not friends but merely interests. It is high time for our new foreign secretary to follow in his predecessor's footsteps and finally pursue his country's interests, not just his own.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (74%); INDIA (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               58 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 9:20 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Philip Hammond: there will be no Brexit budget; New chancellor says he will deliver autumn statement as the first moves are made by Theresa May's new cabinet

BYLINE: Jessica Elgot

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 922 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's new chancellor, Philip Hammond, has said there will be no emergency budget to deal with the economic effects of Brexit, but he will deliver an autumn statement as normal.
Hammond's commitment on his first day at the Treasury is a dig at his predecessor, George Osborne, who had warned before the EU referendum there would need to be a crisis budget involving tax rises and swingeing budget cuts, including £2.5bn taken from the NHS. 
He also said no decision had been taken on when to trigger article 50 to begin formal negotiations with the EU.
The prime minister, Theresa May, is expected to make more appointments on Thursday morning, including jobs at the education, health, work and pensions, international development, energy and agriculture departments.
Arriving for his first day at the Treasury, Hammond said: "The prime minister made clear we will do an autumn statement in the usual way - in the autumn - and we will look carefully over the summer at the situation.
"I'm seeing the governor of the Bank of England this morning and we will take stock. The markets do need signals of reassurance, they need to know we will do whatever is necessary to keep the economy on track." 
Hammond told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the British economy was entering a new phase". Following the decision to leave the EU, "our economy will change as we go forward and it will require a different set of parameters", he said.
There were challenges to face in the short term because of the cause of the economic shock of the leave vote on 23 June leading to a pause in investment decisions, Hammond said. He defended his warnings of a "chilling effect" on the British economy which he made as he campaigned for remain during the referendum.
"The challenge for us is to send signals of assurance as quickly as we can to the international investment community, to British businesses and consumers so we can get those decisions made," he said.
The new chancellor said the UK would leave the European single market as a result of the Brexit decision but would then negotiate access to it.
"We will come out of the single market as a result of our decision to leave the European Union," he told LBC radio. "The question is how we negotiate with the European Union, not from the point of view of being members but from the point of view of being close neighbours and trade partners."
The timing for deficit reduction had to be reconsidered, Hammond said and ratifying a new deal with the EU would have to be agreed by 27 national parliaments so would take some time.
Hammond had previously suggested it would take more than six years but refused to repeat his estimate of the timing, only saying he hoped it would be "sooner rather than later". 
He continued: "If there is one thing that is damaging our economy today it is uncertainty ... [businesses] want to know on what terms they will be able to sell to the single market."
The chancellor said that the new government had not yet discussed Heathrow expansion but was more bullish on plans for a new nuclear power station at Hinkley Point following warnings from the government spending watchdog that the project will cost an extra £30bn in "top-up payments" from consumers. 
"Delivering a reliable power supply is an absolute prerequisite for a modern, dynamic, functioning, economy, and we have to make sure we generate power needed for the UK grid. We have to make sure that project goes ahead," he said.
                     Key positions of state were filled on Wednesday night, with Boris Johnson appointment as foreign secretary, Amber Rudd going to the Home Office and leading Brexiters Liam Fox and David Davis responsible for international trade and Brexit negotiations respectively.
Johnson said he was both humbled and proud to be given the Foreign Office, despite some incredulity at the appointment from world leaders and observers because of the former mayor's gaffe-prone attempts at diplomacy. 
They include in the past year alone calling Barack Obama "part-Kenyan" and implying he disliked Britain, as well as writing an offensive  poem about Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 
Mark Toner, spokesman for the US Department of State, could not hide a smile when told about the appointment. "Frankly, this is a relationship that goes beyond personalities," he said.
Overnight, May took calls from several world leaders, the first from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. She also spoke to the French president, François Hollande, and Ireland's taoiseach, Enda Kenny.
A Downing Street spokesman said May had "emphasised her commitment to delivering the will of the British people to leave the European Union".
"The prime minister explained that we would need some time to prepare for these negotiations and spoke of her hope that these could be conducted in a constructive and positive spirit," the spokesman added.
Speaking from Kyrgyzstan, Merkel invited May to Germany and indicated they would meet for talks at the G20 summit in September. The spokeswoman added: "They agreed that they wanted to establish a constructive relationship, recognising the importance of close cooperation between the UK and Germany."
May spoke to Hollande about the importance of security, defence and joint work on border controls in Calais, as well as offering her best wishes for Bastille Day.
Kenny and May "both agreed that the strong collaboration between our countries should continue and the taoiseach offered to visit London soon for talks on how they could best work together to achieve this".


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               59 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 8:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Philip Hammond: there will be no Brexit budget; New chancellor says he will deliver autumn statement but no emergency budget as the first moves are made by Theresa May's new cabinet

BYLINE: Jessica Elgot

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 502 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's new chancellor, Philip Hammond, has said there will be no emergency budget to deal with the economic effects of Brexit, but he will deliver an autumn statement as normal.
Hammond's commitment on his first day at the Treasury is a dig at his predecessor, George Osborne, who had warned before the EU referendum there would need to be a crisis budget involving tax rises and swingeing budget cuts, including £2.5bn taken from the NHS.
May is expected to make more appointments this morning, including jobs at the education, health, work and pensions, international development, energy and agriculture departments. 
Arriving for his first day at the Treasury on Thursday, Hammond said: "The prime minister made clear we will do an autumn statement in the usual way - in the autumn - and we will look carefully over the summer at the situation.
"I'm seeing the governor of the Bank of England this morning and we will take stock."
                     Key positions of state were filled last night, with Boris Johnson appointment as foreign secretary, Amber Rudd going to the Home Office and leading Brexiters Liam Fox and David Davis responsible for international trade and Brexit negotiations respectively.
Johnson said he was both humbled and proud to be given the Foreign Office, despite some incredulity at the appointment from world leaders and observers because of the former mayor's gaffe-prone attempts at diplomacy. 
They include in the past year alone calling Barack Obama "part-Kenyan" and implying he disliked Britain, as well as writing an offensive  poem about Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 
Mark Toner, spokesman for the US Department of State, could not hide a smile when told about the appointment. "Frankly, this is a relationship that goes beyond personalities," he said.
Overnight, May took calls from several world leaders, the first from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. She also spoke to the French president, François Hollande, and Ireland's taoiseach, Enda Kenny.
A Downing Street spokesman said May had "emphasised her commitment to delivering the will of the British people to leave the European Union".
"The prime minister explained that we would need some time to prepare for these negotiations and spoke of her hope that these could be conducted in a constructive and positive spirit," the spokesman added.
Speaking from Kyrgyzstan, Merkel invited May to Germany and indicated they would meet for talks at the G20 summit in September. The spokeswoman added: "They agreed that they wanted to establish a constructive relationship, recognising the importance of close cooperation between the UK and Germany."
May spoke to Hollande about the importance of security, defence and joint work on border controls in Calais, as well as offering her best wishes for Bastille Day.
Kenny and May "both agreed that the strong collaboration between our countries should continue and the taoiseach offered to visit London soon for talks on how they could best work together to achieve this".


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); GERMANY (75%); FRANCE (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               60 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 6:02 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Post-Brexit farming subsidies must protect nature, 84 groups say; Protection for birds, wildlife and waterways should come top of the list when any new payments for farmers are considered, NGOs tell new government

BYLINE: Fiona Harvey, environment correspondent

SECTION: ENVIRONMENT

LENGTH: 829 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: New subsidies paid to farmers under a post-Brexit government must be linked closely to environmental responsibilities, a large group of political and civil society organisations has urged.
Protection for birds, wildlife, waterways and other natural goods should come top of the list when any new payments are considered, wrote 84 food, farming and conservation specialists in a letter to Oliver Letwin and Theresa May on Thursday.
Current subsidies of about £3bn a year, depending on the exchange rate, come to farmers from the EU. Ahead of the referendum, leading Brexit campaigners promised that farmers would receive substantial help from the government if the UK were to leave, but also pledged that regulation would be reduced.
It is too early to say what May's plans are for farming, but the organisations - including the Campaign for the Protection of Rural Engand, Greenpeace, Friends of the Earth, the Wildlife Trust, War on Want and several parliamentary groups - want to persuade ministers ahead of negotiations that if farmers are to receive payments from the UK taxpayer under a new government, they should be strongly linked to the conservation of nature.
"Food, farming and fishing policies, and the sectors' compliance with strong environmental protections, designed explicitly to achieve public good, must be the bedrock principle for any post-EU referendum negotiations," wrote the leaders. "Public spending on subsidies, research or other support must be directly linked to public goods."
As well as subsidies, any new trade agreement negotiations must include environmental protections as a priority, the signatories wrote. Higher animal welfare standards would be one important protection, as currently minimum standards are set under the EU, though the UK government has frequently imposed more stringent rules on British farmers, under public pressure.
"We are seriously concerned that such considerations may be over-run by a drive for new trade deals at any cost, and pressures to de-regulate," they said. Countries such as the US  and China, seen as key trading partners in post-Brexit negotiations, have much lower animal welfare standards than in the UK.
                     Most of the current subsidies under the Common Agricultural Policy are based on the amount of land farmed, rather than farms' output, with much smaller amounts going to farmers for adhering to higher EU environmental standards, such as leaving field margins fallow to leave space for wildlife.
                     These measures have long been regarded as inadequate by green campaigners, who say they still allow too much intensive and industrial scale farming. They point to findings such as the sharp decline in farmland birds and small mammals and pollinators, which has accompanied intensive farming in the UK.
There are also large disparities in the subsidies paid across the UK. Under the CAP system, big landowners, such as the Duke of Westminster and the Prince of Wales, receive millions of pounds while smaller struggling farmers get much less.
Subsidies are still crucial to small farmers, as they make the difference between profit and loss for thousands.
A return to production-based subsidies, phased out a decade ago, but which some small farmers favour, could mean that land currently given over to nature would be intensively cultivated, green campaigners fear. This could be mitigated if farmers in receipt of subsidy were given strong environmental responsibilities in return.
Other measures that should be considered, according to the letter, include requirements for public procurement of food to come from sustainable sources in the UK, the letter said, and current initiatives on issues such as childhood obesity should not be abandoned under commercial pressure. They called for civil servants with food and farming expertise to be included in the government's new department focused on Brexit, and for consultation with scientists and civil society organisations.
Organisations signing the letter included: Action on Sugar, the London Food Board, the Soil Association, the Fairtrade Foundation, Forum for the Future, Environmentalists for Europe, Unison and Unite the Union , Compassion in World Farming and the World Cancer Research Fund.
Separately, research on the UK's marine environment post-Brexit was published by APB Marine Environment Research, which found that current marine protections may no longer apply when the UK leaves the EU.
In parliament, in a hearing of the select committee on energy and climate change, senior government officials told MPs that the UK's current targets on renewable heat and transport would still stand, while the UK is a member of the EU. "We still see these as binding," said Lord Bourne of Aberystwyth. 
Andrew Jones, parliamentary under secretary of state at the Department for Transport, said "we think we are going to meet it", despite National Grid saying last week that the target is unlikely to be met until 2022. 


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               61 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Right wing returns to lead EU retreat; BREXIT SECRETARY & TRADE SECRETARY

BYLINE: Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 592 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Two prominent right-wing Tories were promoted from the back benches last night and put in charge of making Brexit a success.
David Davis, the former Tory leadership challenger and John Major's last Europe minister, becomes Brexit secretary, overseeing the process of Britain withdrawing from the European Union.
Liam Fox, who launched an abortive bid to replace David Cameron as prime minister, also returns to the cabinet five years after resigning as defence secretary to lead a new Department for International Trade.
The appointments were immediately welcomed by Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader, who called them "inspired choices", adding: "I feel more optimistic now."
Theresa May's decision to create the ministries marks a dramatic return to frontline politics for two Brexiteers sidelined during Mr Cameron's tenure in Downing Street.
Mrs May, who vowed yesterday to use Brexit to "forge a bold new positive role for ourselves in the world", is overhauling Whitehall to focus on the need to negotiate a new relationship with Brussels, while also striking trade deals with the rest of the world to limit the economic shock.
It also curbs the dominance of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, which will be run by Boris Johnson, who campaigned for Brexit but fell out with Michael Gove and others for appearing to support the continuation of freedom of movement. Mr Davis, who will be secretary of state for exiting the European Union, has argued in favour of "taking a little time before triggering Article 50", which would officially start the two-year process of leaving the EU. He has suggested that it could be delayed until early next year, to allow time to consult with Scots, Welsh and Northern Ireland assemblies, business leaders and unions.
Writing for the ConservativeHome website this week, he set out his definition of a successful Brexit deal: "We will have a more dynamic economy, trading throughout the world. Our businesses will have greater global opportunities and will be more competitive.
"There will be lower prices in the shops, once we are outside the common external tariff. There will be higher wages for the poorest. An immigration system that allows us to control numbers. Control of our laws, so our lives are not hampered by needless and restrictive regulations."
Mr Davis, 67, was beaten by Mr Cameron for the Tory leadership in 2005, and handed the role of shadow home secretary. In 2008 he stunned Westminster - and his leader - by resigning his Commons seat to fight a by-election in protest at the Labour government's policies on civil liberties. He won the vote, but has been on the backbenches ever since.
He will work closely with Mr Fox, who was the first of five candidates to be knocked out of the latest Tory leadership race in the ballot of MPs last week.
During his campaign, Mr Fox, a darling of the Tory grassroots, called for the creation of a department for trade and foreign affairs but suggested that Britain might not leave the EU until 2019.
He worked alongside Mr Davis in the Foreign Office in the mid-1990s as a junior minister, and went on to serve on the frontbench in opposition under William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard.
On becoming leader in 2005 Mr Cameron handed Mr Fox the defence brief. When the coalition government was formed in 2010 he became defence secretary but was forced to resign a year later over his relationship with Adam Werrity, his close friend who was given access to the Ministry of Defence and joined him on foreign trips but had no official government role.
Graphic
Liam Fox returns to cabinet after five years in exile to lead a new Department for International TradeAmber Rudd becomes home secretary, David Davies will be in chargeTIMES PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD POHLEof Brexit talks and Michael Fallon will stay as defence secretary


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); WESTMINSTER, ENGLAND (73%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BELGIUM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               62 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Second thoughts in Sunderland for some as Brexit starts to seem real; Few in 'the city that crashed the pound' have regrets   but enthusiasm for Leave has waned

BYLINE: Peter Geoghegan

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1153 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sunderland was once called "the largest shipbuilding town in the world". In 1929, when the future King George VI opened the squat metal arch bridge that spans the river Wear, he would have looked out on to a teeming dockside framed by the vast North Sea. The shipyards are long gone. And, at least for now, Sunderland has become "the city that crashed the pound".
"I've no regrets. I would vote the same way tomorrow," says David Saxon Adamson, one of the 61 per cent of people in Sunderland who voted to leave the EU last month. The 36-year-old roofer is unfazed by predictions of economic meltdown. "Everyone just needs to give it a chance. It'll take a while but it'll be okay," says Adamson over an afternoon pint in a quiet city centre bar festooned with England flags from the national side's ill-fated European Championship campaign. 
His partner Rebecca Clarke agrees. "What will happen will happen." The mother of two voted for Brexit because Europe "never did anything" for her family. "My dad worked in the shipyards but when the EU started he lost his job," she says.
Karen Ditchburn understands the motivation to leave. "When I was growing up you could just walk into a job, now there's nothing," says Ditchburn, who runs a stall in Park Lane Market, close to the train station. All around her are tables laden with cut-price chocolate and crisps, and cuts of beef wrapped in cellophane. 
Ditchburn has had the same pitch for 18 years. "Back then it was so busy you could barely stand up," she says. "Now everything is disintegrating." Most of the market's units are shut. A sign pinned to one metal shutter says: "This market is not closing". The only other stall, selling second-hand washing machines, is unmanned. 
British empire 
The EU did not destroy Sunderland's industries. The end of the British empire put paid to the shipyards. Thatcher, not Brussels, closed the Wearmouth colliery, the city's last mine on which Sunderland FC's Stadium of Light now sits.  
Sunderland has benefited from EU cash. Hoarding running along Keel Square lists hundreds of the estimated 8,200 ships built in the local yards. The names will eventually be cut in granite on to the attractive pedestrianised square. The project was EU supported - although the only acknowledgment is a tiny brown plaque buried at ground level among a bank of flowers.
"Trying to explain that we are a net gainer [from the EU], that we get more out than we pay in. That's a difficult point to get across," says local Labour councillor Mel Speding. A former colliery engineer, Speding says he is "nervous" about the future. 
But many in Sunderland will not mourn the passing of a £20 million (EUR 23.7 million) aquatic centre or a business park for software entrepreneurs that they see little benefit from. Sunderland, like many other parts of the UK, has been battered by globalised economic winds that have brought little but a rising sense of powerlessness. Unemployment is about 50 per cent higher than the UK average. Many of the jobs that do exist are precarious and poorly paid. 
A stone's throw from Keel Square, in the shadow of three 1960s concrete apartment blocks and a glass-fronted shopping centre, Rob is smoking a cigarette outside the Londonderry bar. The 26-year-old, who asks not to use his surname, voted leave because "you can't get a job. The immigrants are coming in and undercutting us".
Sunderland has not disavowed its Leave vote, but the fervent - and at times fevered - support for Brexit before the vote seems to have dampened somewhat. Leave voters seem more reluctant to talk. Half a dozen drinkers in the Royal British Legion club stare silently into their pints when Brexit is mentioned. A woman who runs an alterations shop is "happy" with the result but refuses to give her name or the reasons for her vote. 
Dave Johnson regrets his decision to vote Leave. "If I'd thought about it properly I'd have voted in. But I didn't," says Johnson, who runs the bakery Taste of Home. He has signed a petition calling for a second referendum. "I'd vote in for sure next time." Sunderland's Brexit vote was, in part, a protest by an electorate that rarely has the chance to protest. Labour has run the council for more than 40 years. The council's 1970s offices have a lonely, underused feel. Half the staff have been laid off during years of grinding austerity. 
Leadership contest 
All of Sunderland's MPs are Labour and many local voters are divided on the prospect of a leadership contest. "They should leave [Jeremy] Corbyn alone," says Joe (25). "He's doing a good job." The strongest anger often seems reserved for the Labour parliamentary party.  
The main threat to Labour's hegemony comes from Ukip. The anti-immigrant party won almost a fifth of the northeast vote in the 2015 general election. "We have beliefs that aren't just Europe," says local Ukip activist Alan Davies.
The political shift to the right is a growing concern for minority communities. Sunderland is a conspicuously white city with a history of far-right activism. Just a few days after the Brexit vote a Muslim mother had her veil ripped from her face in the Bridges shopping centre.
"It's not a one-off incident, it's all around in the air," says Abu Shama, manager of Sunderland Bangladeshi international centre. Shama says "misinformed racism" was stoked by the Brexit campaign. "People want someone to blame."
Complaints that Sunderland has been forgotten are understandable. There is city centre development but empty units pockmark the main street. "A lot of people either go north or go south," says Dave Harper, co-founder of Pop Recs, a record store and coffee shop. But Sunderland's relative autonomy has allowed creativity to flourish. Pop Recs opened as a two-day pop up. "Three years later we are still going," says Harper. The walls are lined with record sleeves and artful photographs. Downstairs is a drop-in mental health clinic for young people.
Harper, who voted to stay, describes the Brexit vote as "community suicide" but says that it needs to be understood against the backdrop of "25, 30 years of being broken down". There are signs of hope. Hundreds attended an anti-racist rally last weekend. There has been a sharp increase in volunteers to work with asylum seekers. 
Cut jobs 
Fears have grown for Sunderland's economy. Car manufacturer Nissan employs 8,000 directly and a further 32,000 in its supply chain. Hitachi recently warned that it may cut jobs and investment in the city.  
Nicola Hawkins is concerned about the immediate future. "It's a right mess. They've no plan," the hairdresser says, a "Keep Calm and Carry On" poster pinned to the wall behind her.
"If there is a recession, will people come in for haircuts?" asks Hawkins. She gestures outside the window at the development of a new music, arts and cultural quarter across the street. "Will our government just give us money to do that? I don't think they will."


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SUNDERLAND, ENGLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%); NORTH SEA (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (77%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               63 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Seeing fans with tattoos of your lyrics doesn't ever really get old'; Lauren Mayberry of Scottish electro-pop band Chvrches has always had plenty to say, whether about misogyny directed at women in music or her shock at Brexit

BYLINE: Lauren Murphy

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1004 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For a band that was supposedly born on the internet, Chvrches have had some growing pains to deal with online, too. In the days after their recent Glastonbury set, Lauren Mayberry, frontwoman of the Scottish electropop trio, is in a philosophical mood. 
The Brexit vote result "felt a little weird for us" she says down a crackly phone line from Glasgow. "But it was interesting, because it felt like pretty much everyone at Glastonbury was of the same opinion - they were just all very concerned by what has happened."
Chvrches may essentially be a pop band, but since they emerged on the scene with their 2013 debut, The Bones of What You Believe, they have displayed a social conscience. Last year, on the cusp of releasing their second album, Every Open Eye, Mayberry penned a powerful op-ed for the Guardian, detailing the horrific misogynistic abuse that came her way after the video for the band's single Leave a Trace went online. Her willingness to speak out about something that many female musicians have to deal with has made her an inadvertent spokeswoman on the issue.
"I think it depends on the day," she says of the role that has been thrust upon her. "Obviously, there are days that I wake up and I would rather that people just talked to me about the music that I'm making. I would rather that I would talk about that the same way as [her bandmates] Iain and Martin can, but ultimately they always get asked the music questions - they always have been, since we started the band.
"So I suppose it's just a good thing that my bringing it up and creating that conversation has been constructive, and I'm not just getting asked, 'So, what's it like to be a girl in a band?' I guess if we are going to have to talk about it, I would rather talk about it in a way that's positive and not stupidly superficial, I suppose."
 Online meeting site There have been advantages to the trio's rise via online channels. "Generally I kind of view it as an online meeting site. If you can be involved in the community that surrounds your band, that's a good thing; you just have to balance it and have a real life that doesn't involve playing shows and having people tell you how great you are. If you just lived in that world, you'd become an asshole, so I quite like taking a bit of time away from that when we're not on the road.
"I also think it's important to foster that relationship between people who give a shit about what we're doing in the first place. We were playing sold-out shows before we were even signed to a record label. Something like that doesn't happen without fans and that's a really powerful thing that you can't manufacture."
 Back to basics These days Chvrches are a bona fide headline act thanks to their vibrant, creative electronica songs, as heard on Every Open Eye. Their heads were not turned by the bright lights for their second album; instead they returned to their hometown and went back to basics.
"We went back to Glasgow to the same studio we've always worked in, which is in Iain's flat on the southside of the city," Mayberry says. "We just went back in with the idea of doing a record the same way we did the first one. We write and record everything ourselves, so it was nice to be as far removed from the industry as we could, at that point. 
"On the other side, I guess, there was an audience for this record that wasn't there when we were making the first one. It was done over a protracted period of time and what we had collected eventually became a record. This time, we went in specifically with the idea of making an album and I suppose that made a difference to how it sounds."
The album is certainly bigger-sounding than its predecessor in many ways, with songs like the towering Bury It and the zippy bombast of Empty Threat. Many have perceived it to be darker thematically, too, but Mayberry is not so sure.
"It definitely had some of the darkest, most aggressive stuff we've ever written, but it also had some of the most hopeful and upbeat stuff we've ever written, and I liked that juxtaposition. I don't really think that people are ever one thing; you can feel loads of different things all at once. I think for me, a lot of the stuff that was written on that record was done with the benefit of hindsight - so it came from looking back on stuff that had happened and feeling stronger for it.
"I think we definitely had a better idea of what we wanted the band to be this time. I think we also had an idea in mind - Iain and Martin, especially - for the production. We wanted to do more with less. We didn't want to add more and more layers into every song and make it bigger. I guess we were trying to be more controlled about what goes into a song, and why."
There is a balance to be struck between putting personal experience into your songs and maintaining a presence outside the band, a requirement that has become more pronounced as Chvrches have grown in stature. At the end of the day, she says, they are two albums deep into a career that wasn't ever really meant to take off. All three members had been in bands of varying success before Chvrches, but now that they've landed on a winning formula, they are not taking it for granted.
 Incredibly lucky "We don't really take a big interest in the shiny stuff that surrounds the band, and I suppose the concept of fame is a pretty subjective thing," she says. "We're lucky enough that we can live a normal life when we're not playing shows and on tour. I think that's a good thing for me, psychologically; I don't want to be 'that person in that band' all the time. But generally, we've been incredibly lucky with how people have connected with the band. 
"I think when we're away from home and touring and working all the time, the thing that makes it feel worthwhile is when you feel like you're connecting with people. I've been in bands where it felt like what we did didn't matter to anybody, ever, so seeing fans with tattoos of your lyrics doesn't ever really get old."
 Chvrches play Longitude on Friday, July 15th


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               64 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Take the Churchillian view on Brexit - and do nothing

BYLINE: Brendan Keenan

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1117 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: 'IHAVE not become the King's First Minister in order to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire," Winston Churchill told the US Congress in a famous speech. How much more important, then, not to become the Queen's First Minister to preside over the liquidation of the United Kingdom? Alas for him, David Cameron's place in history is already allocated.
His putative successors might like to ponder theirs. They certainly ought to ponder what is at stake. The end of the 300-year old union of Scotland and England is certainly one, although the exact mechanism and timing of such an event is far from certain.
But there is more. The end of Britain as a G-7 economy and a significant player on the world stage is also a distinct possibility, if it departs from both the European Union and the single market, which seems the most likely outcome.
In between could be a sterling crisis, an international bailout and an austerity recession. Mr Cameron would move up a place in the long list of failed prime ministers to make way for whoever presides over that.
It still beggars belief that such a risk is being run, whatever the results of the referendum. Everyone is rushing for the lifeboats; not because the ship has hit an iceberg, but because the captain intends to scuttle it.
There is of course much debate about whether the apocalyptic vision is the correct one, but that is not the point. Government, like management or investment, is about balancing risk against potential reward.
Most people instinctively prefer reduced risk to greater possible reward, but only a wild gambler chooses to run greater risks for smaller potential gain. In this case, one does not have to be able to predict the future to see that the risks from Brexit outweigh the possible gains by perhaps the greatest margin ever seen in such a choice. On one side of the ledger, dangers on an unprecedented kind: on the other - well, what exactly? Not much more than a dream. For holiday reading, it being the Fourth of July, I went dabbling into David McCullough's 2001 biography of John Adams, one of the founding fathers of the United States, and read, "We should always remember that a free constitution cannot be purchased at too dear a rate, as there is nothing on this side of Jerusalem of equal importance to mankind."
Those of us who have jibbed at Patrick Pearse have to say, from the perspective of the 21st century, that this is dangerous rot. There can be too high a price, even for a republic.
Almost any price is too high a price for the pursuit of an illusion, which is what Brexit ultimately represents. It is hard to know where to start with the arguments for leaving, but one of the most instructive must be that it will reduce regulation. The British businessman who feared a "mountain of paperwork" outside the free market was spot on.
But John Adams, and Pearse, were right about human nature. Historians still argue about the degree of oppression in the American colonies and the Irish kingdom, but the supposed oppressions of the EU, once examined, amount to little more than irritations - albeit often both annoying and unnecessary irritations. Yet there is no doubt about the strength of feeling among many English people in particular, that their freedoms have been seriously eroded.
This is the choice which faces the British prime minister: the possible ruin of her country from a combination of imaginary, media-fed grievances and genuine economic and social distress which is the responsibility of the British government, or a decision that she will not run such a risk for so little gain, and will face the political consequences.
How likely is that ruin? One cannot foretell the future, but events already point to the probability of irreparable damage. Recession is on the way.
There can be no other result from a run on property so severe that some funds are unable to repay investors their money at present, the biggest fall in consumer confidence in 20 years, and an investment strike. Beyond that lies the possible end of Britain as the "world's biggest hedge fund". The country reaps enormous benefits from investment flows into the City of London, as well as the profits, salaries and bonuses from firms established there, yet still has to borrow around £7 abroad for every £100 it spends.
There has been no problem raising such loans, partly because of the UK's unique financial and political place in the world. There soon may be, as sterling falls below $1.30 for the first time in 30 years.
A financial recession will be added to the demand one - the kind Ireland has just come through, where austerity policies to close the deficit make the recession worse. An external bailout might even be needed, with accompanying terms and conditions.
Such balance of payments crises used to be a chronic British problem. The last severe episode was 40 years ago but the problem has not gone away. Of all the delusions on show in the referendum campaign, the biggest was that the UK "fundamentals" are sound. They are not, but since both sides wanted to say so, the claim went unchallenged and the danger under-estimated.
Britain cannot afford to lose a significant chunk of the City income, yet this is the prize which other major EU countries covet most, and the one it is easiest for them to grab. Even Norway and Switzerland, with contributions to the EU budget and adoption of EU rules, do not have full access. Fat chance that Britain will be given it. Everyone in Dublin business circles is astonished at the degree to which UK firms are making plans to operate outside Britain, if necessary.
We too would like a slice of Lombard Street, but, unlike the bigger EU states, not if it entails the collapse of the UK economy.
Not that they should like it either. It is hard to comprehend the folly of those European leaders and officials who urge Britain to apply for exit at once. At times, it seems like 1914 - thankfully, without guns - where everyone blundered into something none of them intended, because they could not distinguish the wider national interest from the narrow.
Britain simply cannot afford to lose a significant chunk of the City income, Which is where Churchill comes in. Surprisingly, he conceded in that speech that someone would probably dissolve the Empire. Just not him.
Article 50 can be triggered only by the supreme UK body - not the people, as in Ireland, but the government in parliament. It will be a deliberate decision and it has not yet been taken. The new prime minister should take a leaf from the Churchill book and say, not by her.
Britain cannot afford to  ;  ;  lose a significant chunk of  ;  ;  the City income, yet this is  ;  ;  the prize others covet most  ;
Graphic
The statue of Winston Churchill stands silhouetted in Parliament Square in London


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               65 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 10:20 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: There'll be no Brexit emergency budget. But what will Philip Hammond do?; The end of George Osborne's budget surplus target is welcome. The new chancellor's reluctance to spell out what comes

BYLINE: Jonathan Portes

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 968 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: In 2010, the UK had the second highest budget deficit among the G7 group of large industrial countries. So while George Osborne is likely to be remembered as the "austerity" chancellor, the story is a bit more complicated than that, with a number of twists and turns along the way.
In 2010-12, Osborne decided to press for speedy deficit reduction even though there was neither any economic case nor any pressure from financial markets.
However, in 2012 he wisely decided against doubling down on this error and executed a partial U-turn, which helped to support the reasonable, albeit sluggish, recovery that was then beginning.
Perhaps rendered overconfident by this success, he then set out an objective - of achieving an absolute budget surplus - that had no economic rationale, and which was never likely to survive either political adversity or even a modest economic downturn. Even before the referendum, he'd already conceded that it would only be met by some very creative accounting. After the referendum, it was jettisoned in days.
Just a year ago, the Conservative manifesto said: "The way to keep our economy secure for the future is to eliminate the deficit entirely and start running a surplus. Anything less would be to ignore the lessons of the past." Today, not a single senior Conservative appears to believe that aiming for a surplus is either credible or sensible. Osborne's legacy has been airbrushed out of history even before he has left the building. Few economists will mourn.
Elsewhere Osborne's record - like those of most British chancellors - is more mixed. His biggest failure was to back off from a serious attempt to boost housing supply  in favour of measures to boost demand and prices. He also struggled, valiantly but so far largely in vain, to finally get agreement on expanding airport capacity in the south-east.
More positively, while the " northern powerhouse "; is still more a slogan than reality, he was the first chancellor in living memory to try to genuinely devolve power, responsibility and crucially money away from Whitehall. Another policy whose effects will only be felt well after his departure is the very large rises planned for the national minimum wage  over the next few years, whose impact on the labour market will be profound.
But by far his most positive achievement, for which he deserves huge credit, was institutional - the creation of the Office for Budget Responsibility. This is a lasting and positive change to the UK's economic policymaking infrastructure. Like Bank of England independence, it is now unthinkable that any future government will reverse it.
So where next for UK economic policy?
The millstone of the surplus target  has been lifted. There is an almost universal economic consensus that at a time when government borrowing rates are at their lowest in recorded economic history (going back to the Mesopotamian empire) it is simply absurd for the government not to borrow to finance much needed public investment. This consensus seems finally to have been adopted by government politicians.
But that's the easy bit. We will still need a fiscal policy. Philip Hammond, the new chancellor, made clear this morning on the Today programme that Osborne's talk of a Brexit "emergency budget" to raise taxes or cut spending was indeed absurd, as most of us said at the time. Instead, he will leave the very short-term reaction to the Bank of England. But he will still need to set fiscal policy, and the crunch will come in the autumn statement.
He will, in all likelihood, be confronted with projections for larger deficits. So he will have to choose between raising taxes and cutting spending, repeating Osborne's original error, attempting to stimulate the economy by doing the reverse, or simply standing pat.
If the immediate economic impact of Brexit is relatively mild, the latter is most likely. But if things are significantly worse, the choices will become much harder. And in any case, the government will still at some point have to set out a medium-term fiscal plan. Will it be to balance the current budget, to stabilise and reduce the debt-GDP ratio, or something else?
Hammond dodged this question this morning. He may be criticised for this, but it is entirely sensible. He would be well advised to break with Treasury tradition and avoid the temptation to produce a new policy out of a hat. Instead of setting himself up for another U-turn he could consult more widely and devise a framework that was based on the long-term economic interest of the country rather than the short-term interests of the government.
In particular he could build on Osborne's main positive legacy and enhance the role of the OBR. Such a move away from the politicised chopping and changing of the Osborne era might appear indecisive - but it would actually enhance the credibility of policy over the long run.
Meanwhile, Theresa May has called for greater constraints on executive pay and enhanced representation for workers on company boards - proposals which the previous Labour government shied away from, seeing them as a "burden on business".
This illustrates an amusing irony - while many proponents of Brexit have long argued that one of the benefits would be less "red tape", especially employment regulation, the referendum campaign showed that there was almost no appetite for such an agenda among the British people. The leave campaign was forced by public opinion to back away from its earlier proposals to reduce employment rights, such as the working time directive or entitlements to maternity leave.
Indeed, if the words of our new prime minister are any guide, it appears possible we may be about to have our least economically "liberal" government since the 1970s. To borrow a good "European" word, you might even call it dirigiste.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               66 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Uncertainty of Brexit is staring us in the face

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 544 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Mark Carney, speaking in a personal capacity a week after the vote for Brexit, signalled his belief that "some monetary policy easing will likely be required over the summer". The monetary policy committee (MPC) looks set to follow his lead, possibly as early as today. Financial markets are positioned for material monetary stimulus. This judgment may turn out to be correct. The economy may tank, threatening the return of inflation to 2 per cent over the next couple of years.
But it may not. The MPC made clear at its June meeting, a week before the referendum, that a Leave vote would be likely to have opposing effects on output and inflation - and that any decline in economic activity would reflect some combination of lower demand for goods and services and lower ability to supply them. Rightly, the MPC acknowledged that the implications for monetary policy were unclear. With the economy fairly close to "full employment", any exchange rate shock, and the implied rise in the price of imported goods, could push inflation above the MPC's target over the medium-term.
Less than a month after the vote, we are none the wiser about the magnitude of the impact on demand, supply and medium-term inflation. The economic repercussions of our vote to leave the EU will not be clear for several months. Only then will the MPC have sufficient information to chart an appropriate course. Now is the time for calm heads. It is not the moment for the MPC to signal an imminent economic downturn by voting for an aggressive, pre-emptive easing of monetary policy. andrew lilico on behalf of the Institute of Economic Affairs shadow monetary policy committee. Full list of signatories at www.thetimes.co.uk Sir, As year 12 students, aged 16 and 17, we did not have a say in the outcome of the referendum but it will be our generation that has to deal with the consequences. I am writing on behalf of a significant number of my year group at Kendrick School, in Reading, to explain our dismay at the uncertainty hanging over our futures.
Many of us had been anticipating careers within the EU, but these may now be closed to us along with our right to live and work there. This choice was made for us largely by older voters even though the young overwhelmingly backed Remain (75 per cent of 18-24 year olds).
We should like to know: 1 What will replace the educational and employment opportunities in the EU that my generation may have lost? 2 After seeing a campaign of misinformation and scaremongering, how can ministers and MPs restore our confidence in their integrity, and in British politics itself? We know it is our responsibility to do our utmost to take our country forward but we feel let down by our leaders and the huge uncertainty they have created. felicity garvey Year 12, Kendrick School, Reading Sir, Now that Sir John Chilcot is at a loose end, can I suggest that, in the interests of efficiency, he is engaged immediately to start work on the Cameron Inquiry.
An early appointment will enable evidence to be gathered contemporaneously as the Brexit shambles unravels rather than having to try to glean this retrospectively. bill gething Bathford, Somerset Sir, "Brexit means Brexit", but what does Brexit mean? geoffrey bignell Guildford, Surrey


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               67 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What's next for Brexit Britain?

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 22 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Wake up to our free morning email Matt Chorley guides you through the day's essential political stories www.thetimes.co.uk /redboxemail


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               68 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 7:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What's the best Brexit Theresa May could get for Britain?; Negotiations to disentangle the UK from the EU are going to be long and complex. Is a soft exit, with Norway as the model, going to be the new prime minister's preferred option?

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour in Brussels

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1861 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May's mantra "Brexit means Brexit" is designed to reassure. Suspicious leavers are being told by their new prime minister that there will be no reversal, slippery evasions or procrastination on her watch. 
In the referendum campaign she may have been a reluctant remainer, but the message - with Brexiters taking the three top foreign policy jobs in cabinet - is that she will now abide by the people's instructions. In the best Thatcherite tradition there will be no turning back. 
Yet "Brexit means Brexit" means next to nothing since there are so many ways for the UK to leave the European Union, and so many different kinds of new relationship with the EU on offer, each with their own balance of advantage and disadvantage. Indeed few made a more careful attempt to weigh those risks than May herself in a lengthy speech on 25 April. 
 May is a stickler for detail and doubtless will be alarmed by the absence of a coherent plan for Brexit in Whitehall. If preparation is a prerequisite for successful Brexit, the omens are poor. The official leave campaign, focused on victory and avoiding internal division, drew up only the flimsiest plan for what Brexit would look like, pointing vaguely at the exit door, but with little idea of what lay the other side. Foreign Office diplomats were instructed to draw up no contingency plans whatsoever, supposedly for fear they might leak.
Detailed options were discussed little, due to the foreshortening of the Tory leadership election. On the Labour side, a coherent policy on Europe that combines its pro-European instincts with its voters' dislike of free movement has yet to emerge.
The discussion has instead been confined to thinktanks, bloggers, the House of Lords and Oliver Letwin's hastily assembled Cabinet Office Brexit unit. 
Yet the choice - essentially between a hard or soft Brexit - will determine Britain's future for at least the next decade. 
A soft Brexit means a relatively slow negotiation designed to retain as close as possible a relationship with the rest of the EU. Access to the EU's single market, with as few tariffs as possible, is the goal. 
The off-the-shelf model is Norway's complex European Economic Area agreement, but probably only as long as the EU agrees that Norway's limited flexibility on free movement can be extended. This has been described as "EEA-minus". 
Rune-readers reckon this model might be the instinctive preference of both May and her Whitehall civil servants. It minimises disruption, calms business and could be sold as a staging post while Whitehall starts a bigger process of disentanglement.
Hard Brexit would mean getting out of the EU quickly, no institutional or political relationship with the union, full control of UK borders and a negotiated free trade deal with the EU as just one of many such deals. 
But presenting these choices assumes the UK is a free agent. It is not the only actor. In truth, Britain's options are dependent on the mood in Europe, where there is a melange of emotions.
For many there is little but simmering anger for David Cameron, but also a growing sense of opportunity for Europe. 
                     Emmanuel Macron, the French economy minister, sounded a note of relief, saying the UK had demanded and been granted a particular kind of single market and now had walked away from it. Europe's period of paralysis was at an end. A new Europe could be born.
Christine Lagarde, the director of the International Monetary Fund, almost spoke of the liberation of Europe. "The years are over when Europe cannot follow a course because the British will object," she said. "Now the British are going, Europe can find a new elan." Far from a collapse of support in the EU, polls show growing support for Europe in many key EU countries. 
So there is a growing confidence in the European political class. There are also limits on what the EU can give the UK. Michael Dougan, a professor of international law at Liverpool University, says: "The EU, through this withdrawal agreement, cannot give us anything that the EU institutions are not competent to offer us. They cannot give us anything that would be incompatible with the EU treaties."
So Britain will have to be realistic about its options in the negotiations, and what it wants.
Sir John Holmes, the former UK ambassador to France, caught this mood well in a speech to Chatham House. "What is done is done. Whatever our views we need to face squarely up to the fact that we are going to leave the EU in the next couple of years and that this is possible, if difficult," he said.
"There is a widespread perception in the rest of the world that we have just dealt ourselves out of the game and we have gone back to being the small island off the continental shelf of Europe that we were before. That perception must not be allowed." He argues it is in the UK's national interest to hug Europe close.
Philip Hammond, the former foreign secretary and new chancellor, put the specific policy dilemma best. He said: "Here's the rub. The fundamental dilemma at the heart of the Brexit position is that we will now have to make a decision about how much access to that single market we want and need to protect our economy, and how much freedom of movement we are prepared to accept in order to buy it. 
"And those who say: 'No, they need us more than we need them'... are simply mistaken about the balance of power and the level of commitment to this agenda in Europe. We will not be able to negotiate control of migration from the European Union and at the same time full access to the single market. There will have to be a trade-off."
Lord Wood, a former adviser to Ed Miliband, said: "It is hard to see why EU member states would agree to unravel rules on free movement that they considered so sacrosanct when the UK was threatening to leave now that the UK has actually decided to leave - particularly if doing so hands the UK a competitive advantage. Germany, facing a predicted 2 million labour shortage by 2030, is hardly going to favour barriers on labour mobility."
May herself set out the dilemma. "The reality is that we do not know on what terms we would win access to the single market. We do know that in a negotiation we would need to make concessions in order to access it, and those concessions could well be about accepting EU regulations, over which we would have no say, making financial contributions, just as we do now, accepting free movement rules, just as we do now, or quite possibly all three combined. It is not clear why other EU member states would give Britain a better deal than they themselves enjoy."
But that has not prevented some wishful thinking. Holmes said: "Is it impossible to imagine some kind of emergency brake arrangement [referring to curbs on migration floated in the pre-referendum negotiation] for large and rapid flows, even now when we are leaving, and despite the rejection of this option by some of our European friends? 
"I do not see myself why an emergency brake on these lines means breaking the principle of freedom of movement. It should rather be seen as a natural reaction to the fact that large gaps between the economic performance of different countries persist, and are causing unacceptable imbalances of flows of people.
"I suspect that, whatever they say in public, there are quite a few other EU governments, including even Germany, which might be brought to see advantages in a similar measure for themselves at some stage."
Some say that there are little-noticed flexibilities in the free movement in the Norway free trade agreement, such as article 112 that allows EEA states to "take unilateral action to restrict freedom of movement in the event of serious economic, societal or environmental difficulties". Some Brexiters have claimed this gives an EEA member state the right to restrict the freedom of EU citizens to come to the UK through a form of emergency brake. But It was just this brake that Cameron sought, and was unable to secure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. 
Dougan describes this interpretation of article 112 as "an armchair lawyer's argument" and says that the article is of limited practical value: the number of EU migrants per capita in Norway is higher than in most of the member states, including the UK.
That is not to deny the great advantages of the Efta model. Above all, it provides an existing institutional structure through which to have a relationship with the EU. 
If Norway does not work for an incoming May government, can she realistically secure a different bespoke bilateral agreement with the EU, in which the UK is not party to the single market but has access to it? In her April speech she wondered whether the UK due to its size and strategic influence could strike a better deal, but she also conceded "in a stand-off between Britain and the EU, 44% of our exports is more important to us than 8% of the EU's exports is to them".
Letwin, probably an outer, takes a more optimistic view, saying: "It is in all our mutual interests to establish the best possible working relationships and trading relationships so that this country and indeed the EU can prosper."
Optimists claim countries are already queuing to sign bilateral trade deals with the UK, and there is no need for the UK's other key security and political relationships to be damaged. The UK's membership of Nato and its seat on the UN security council remain protected.
 But it would be incredibly complex to negotiate a new set of trade agreements worldwide, when the world is increasingly concentrating into trade blocs, and all the while firms might shift out of the UK due to the uncertainty. 
It is true that after leaving the EU the UK would no longer be bound by the common external tariff on goods imported from outside the EU, but would be free to set its own. As a starting point, the UK would be most likely to inherit the EU's tariff commitments, but it could then choose to reduce its import tariffs below EU levels to lower import costs for UK consumers and firms and increase the competition faced by UK businesses.
But since the average tariff charged on imports to the EU is only 1% there is limited scope for further reductions. There is also limited scope to lower non-tariff barriers through unilateral action since that often requires harmonising policies, regulations or product standards across countries, which requires international agreement. 
 The EU single market is the most sophisticated trade agreement on earth. 
The City and friendly foreign powers are being scoured for potential trade negotiators that can be hired. But that is only the start. Dougan argues that the whole UK legal system "will need to be checked to make sure that we do not inadvertently wreak chaos upon the authority of our public bodies and the security of individual relationships".
All this complexity may well lead the cautious May and her new "minister for Brexit David Davis" back to the Norway option as the best starting point. 
It took two seconds for voters to mark a cross alongside leave on the ballot paper. It is increasingly apparent it might take two decades to work through the full consequences.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               69 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Where to turn in choice between two unions; Brexit has catapulted us back to the questions of 2014 and debate on independence is crucial

BYLINE: Andrew Tickell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 869 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It was one of those overheard conversations of 2014. "Of course, when you've got nothing, you've got nothing to lose," the perjink lady observed, in cutglass Kelvinside.
This Bob Dylan fan's roots lay in some poorer district of Glasgow but the social associations had clearly been strangled along with her vowels. Through graft and the advantages of education, this wellmeaning lady had come to live a different life to the one she had been born into and in the autumn of 2014, she decided to back Scottish independence.
She had little confidence in the folk deliberating sceptically in the drawing rooms of Pollokshields and Hyndland but she was optimistic that the men and women of no property would contemplate the balance of risks and vote "yes".
My ears were left burning by the crass stupidity of what she was saying. This kind of political tinnitus was catching back in the Yes-inclined echo chambers of 2014. Even now, you can still hear its faint echo in the notion that only a redder, greener Scottish nationalism will carry this country out of the Union.
The evidence remains considerably more ambivalent. On currency, on Europe, on identity, in 2014, middleclass Scots brought independence to a dead halt. Some were British nationalists. Others were Don Quixotes for federalism, still unpersuaded that their dream was impossible. But often as not, Yes campaigners brought a spoon to a knife fight. They didn't understand the country they were striving to persuade.
In 2014 the government used its annual household survey to canvass the financial heartiness of Scottish households. Are you prospering well, they asked, only getting by, or do you struggle financially? So, what do you reckon? Poverty and austerity were at the heart of the last referendum campaign. What percentage of Scots experienced acute, personal economic suffering? The gap between guesses about these percentages and reactions to the real figures are instructive. I'm yet to encounter the independenceminded Scottish leftwinger who hazards that any less than a third of their fellow citizens were living a very lean year in 2014. Most pitch their guesses considerably higher, judging that 40 per cent or 50 per cent were like Dylan's rolling stone.
However official data tells a different story. In 2014 a full 52 per cent of Scottish households indicated that their domestic finances were in positive if not rude health, with a further 37 per cent of people saying that they were "getting by all right" on their incomes. Just 1 per cent reported being in "deep financial trouble", with a further 10 per cent experiencing some financial difficulties. Even among the poorest 20 per cent of Scottish households, the figures show that just under a quarter reported they were "not managing well".
Reluctant rationalisations of these figures invariably follow. Many of these objections have something to them. Perhaps folk aren't keen on admitting to a perfect stranger with a clipboard that they struggle to pay the bills? Perhaps they underplay their difficulties? Sure.
Greying Marxists might also be tempted to reach for the language of false consciousness. Perhaps these results speak more to Scots' Stakhanovite endurance, to their stoicism, rather than their relative comfort. After all, isn't there sound evidence that the poor tend to underestimate their poverty, while the prosperous underestimate their relative prosperity? Parts of the media positively encourage confusion about the economic tree and which branch most of its readers truly occupy. Perceptions and reality frequently misalign.
These objections can't spike the fundamental point. Many Yes campaigners in 2014 lived imaginatively in a Scottish economy painted by Raymond Briggs, realised in the grungy, dismal sepia of When the Wind Blows. They were wrong. Most Scots did have something to lose in 2014 and it is self-defeatist to imagine otherwise. In the three weeks since the European referendum, however, you can detect a perceptible shift in mood.
So general are these reassessments that I was startled yesterday to read Ruth Davidson arguing that contemplating Scotland's place in this Union after Brexit is "utterly unjustified".
I know, you know - and the Tory leader must know - countless swithering No voters from 2014 who will baulk at this misplaced trenchancy. For many, Brexit reopens wider constitutional questions. Ours is a union transformed. That transformation represents a crisis of identity and confidence for Scotland's liberal, cosmopolitan middle classes.
Kezia Dugdale spoke for many last week when she observed: "I don't want to choose between two unions." It is a tortured spot to find yourself in - but now an unavoidable one.
To characterise this ambivalence as "utterly unjustifiable", attempting angrily to foreclose these legitimate reassessments, suggests a startling failure of empathy.
Unless Ms Davidson learns to treat these diverse voices with the seriousness they merit, she risks becoming a drum major at the head of a disintegrating unionist column, giving it big licks as her band melts away and the music fades.
Often as not, Yes campaigners brought a spoon to a knife fight
Ours is a union transformed, bringing a crisis of identity


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (95%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               70 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 14, 2016 Thursday 5:00 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Wine: grab a French bargain (while you still can); In the fallout from Brexit, wine is going to stay a lot cheaper in Europe than it is in the UK - and the Wine Society's outlet in France is just the place to find a bargain (before it, too, closes down)

BYLINE: Fiona Beckett

SECTION: LIFE AND STYLE

LENGTH: 437 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Amid all the wild speculation about the likely effects of Brexit on the economy, it's hard to predict what will happen to UK wine prices in the long run, but I think it's pretty safe to say it will still be cheaper to buy wine in Europe than at home, where any fall in the pound is bound to push up costs. And, given that many of us will still be holidaying on the continent, we may as well seize the chance to stock up, particularly now that the best cross-Channel outlet, the Wine Society's showroom at Montreuil, is closing at the end of this year (at least in part due to uncertainties following the referendum result).
I have as many bottles at home as I have cookery books, so I hardly need to top up my supplies, but on a recent visit to Montreuil I couldn't resist the lure of several bargains that undercut even the Society's normally reasonable prices. This included a couple of bottles of its brilliant own-label Champagne ((EURO)26.50, or £22.19 at time of writing, compared with the UK price of £28, although you do get a free bottle if you buy six at that price; 12.5% abv), which is made by Alfred Gratien, which, like Krug, is one of the few houses that ferments and ages its wines in oak. I also grabbed a couple of bottles each of the Félines-Jourdan Picpoul 2015  ((EURO)7.95, or £6.66, compared with £8.50 here; 12.5% abv) and Saumur Les Plantagenets 2014 ((EURO)6.10, or £5.10, instead of £6.95; 12.5% abv), a fragrant, light, fruity Loire red that would make perfect summer drinking.
The Montreuil selection is more limited than the full Wine Society list, but you can order other wines to pick up from the showroom, so long as you contact them at least eight days before your visit (any order has to be in by 5pm on Monday for pickup on Tuesday the following week). Since the discount amounts to £24 a case, it's better value to buy cheaper wines, such as the splendidly gutsy Château Sainte Eulalie Minervois 2014 ((EURO)6.10, or £5.03 a bottle, rather than £6.95; 13.5% abv), which means you can pick it up from Montreuil for only fractionally more than you'd pay if you were to buy it direct from the domaine.
 Related:  Wine: there's more to sherry than the stuff in your gran's sideboard
You do, of course, have to be a member to buy from the Wine Society, which costs a one-off £40; but, with that, you do get £20 off the first order you make online or through its Stevenage showroom. Given its lower-than-average prices, this should easily offset the membership fee. I've been a member since I was 25 and would recommend it to anybody.
                     matchingfoodandwine.com                   


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               71 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: After the Brexit storm, a semblance of order; Theresa May's cabinet reflects shrewdness and a dash of grit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 586 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has displayed the necessary ruthlessness to be prime minister. Within hours of taking office, she sacked some of the most illustrious members of David Cameron's cabinet, notably George Osborne, the longtime chancellor and leader-in-waiting.
Having seized control , she now faces the momentous task of shaping a new role for Britain in Europe and the rest of the world.
After weeks of drift, the smack of firm government is welcome. The Bank of England's decision to hold interest rates is, with the benefit of hindsight, also sensible. It contributes to the sense that a degree of stability is being restored, even if the BoE does cut next month.
Mrs May has offered a vision of a more inclusive Britain that "works for everyone" rather than "the privileged few". Her words recognise public alienation with the establishment which crystallised during the EU referendum. Realising her ambitions will be difficult, given the weak state of the economy, the level of uncertainty and her slim 12-seat majority in the House of Commons.
The prime minister has pledged to deliver Brexit. But she also stressed, rightly, the importance of keeping the UK together. The implication is that, whatever settlement is reached with the EU, a pro-Remain Scotland will be fully consulted on the terms of divorce but cannot go its own way.
Brexit involves the most fundamental reshaping of Britain's foreign policy since the 1960s. Mrs May's confident start cannot disguise the scale of the challenge she faces. In the absence of a concrete plan from the Leave campaign, she must forge a strategy which avoids splitting her party or crippling the economy. She must engage with EU partners fearful that Brexit will spread contagion to the continent.
Mrs May's foreign policy team is led by Brexiters. This makes a virtue of a necessity but is also a shrewd political move. Leading Leavers are now responsible for delivering the policy they so ardently willed on the country.
Boris Johnson's appointment as foreign secretary has captured the most attention. The flamboyant former mayor of London is responsible for a litany of gaffes and outrageous statements, some stemming from his career as a newspaper columnist. He has a lot of ground to make up if he is to win trust on the international stage.
Mr Johnson is one booming voice in a larger foreign policy chorus. David Davis, a longstanding Eurosceptic who is now minister for Brexit, will be directly responsible for negotiating with the EU. Liam Fox, the international trade secretary, has the unenviable task of signing a host of trade deals with non-EU partners. Mrs May and the Cabinet Office will have the first and last word.
On domestic policy, Mrs May has sensibly combined continuity with a safe pair of hands. Philip Hammond, the chancellor, has already promised to scale back austerity to head off the economic shock of Brexit.
The greater uncertainty lies in Mrs May's vision for a more inclusive economy. Combined with her earlier promises to put workers on company boards and to bear down on executive pay, this suggests a determination to occupy the political centre ground, even if that means borrowing from the centre left. She should not lose sight of what makes the UK globally competitive: the country's flexible and open labour market.
Mrs May needs time to craft a new course for the country. She displayed more grit and resilience than her male rivals in the race for the leadership. These qualities, and a dose of luck, will serve her well in the coming months.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               72 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: All-island Brexit forum could go ahead, says Kenny

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 471 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  An all-island forum to respond to Brexit - dismissed out of hand by the North's First Minister Arlene Foster - could yet proceed, the Taoiseach told Opposition leaders yesterday.
The Government remains keen to pursue an "all-island dimension" in response to the Leave result, Mr Kenny said, and the idea could be revisited, perhaps in a different way. 
Mr Kenny met the leaders of all Opposition groups in Government Buildings yesterday. He said the Government still wanted to "progress an all-island dimension in an inclusive way". 
Opposition leaders suggested a cross-Border forum be set up, regardless of whether unionist parties would participate. However, it is understood the Government's preference is for full participation and it will pursue different avenues to see if it is possible. 
Mr Kenny told leaders he has instructed Ministers and senior officials to increase the number of trade missions to European countries.
Every avenue 
Mr Kenny has insisted his Government will use every avenue to engage with European leaders to ensure Ireland has significant support at the EU.  
Green Party leader Eamon Ryan and Independent TD Michael Harty told the Taoiseach there were significant opportunities for Ireland from Brexit and those must be explored.
Mr Kenny said the steps to reorganise his own Department of the Taoiseach to allow the setting up of an effective "Brexit" division were well advanced, as were plans for the Cabinet committee chaired by him, and the negotiating team, which will be in place ahead of the first formal meeting in Slovakia in September. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs will also have a crucial role in the negotiations with the European Parliament and the EU Commission. 
Highest ranking 
The Irish Times understands Rory Montgomery, the second secretary general at the Department of the Taoiseach and one of the highest-ranking civil servants in the State, is to return to the Department of Foreign Affairs as a second secretary general to lead the Brexit preparations.  
The Department of Foreign Affairs will lead on the Irish participation in the UK-EU negotiations, while the overview - including on domestic matters and Northern Ireland - will remain in the Department of the Taoiseach, a source said. Another second secretary general is to be recruited to replace Mr Montgomery in the Taoiseach's department. 
"The direction will come from the Department of the Taoiseach while implementation will come from Foreign Affairs," said another source. 
Strengthening key missions abroad - including Brussels, Berlin, Paris and London - is likely to proceed in autumn.
Mr Kenny also consulted with the leaders about progress in the Commission of Investigation into transactions by the IBRC. He said he expected Mr Justice Brian Cregan would report back on the Siteserv sale by the end of 2016.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (70%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               73 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Arguments for Brexit always held that Britain would get a soft deal, but it is about to learn some hard truths xit always held that Britain would t deal, but it is about to learn some hard truths

BYLINE: Peter Foster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26,27

LENGTH: 914 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: FOR much of the last 43 years the British relationship with the European Union has been presented as fundamentally adversarial in nature - from Margaret Thatcher winning the rebate, to 'Up Yours Delors' [the famous headline from 'The Sun', calling on its readers to tell Jacques Delors - then President of the European Commission - "where to stuff his ECU", the single currency that would become the euro] and a decade of battles to escape the currency, the Schengen Area and the Social Chapter.
However, despite all the fights over federalist ambitions, Britain still remained a member of the EU club, which explains why - often through gritted teeth - Europe's leaders gave the UK such privileged status, granting it a series of optouts from the project.
In February this year, as David Cameron conducted his 'renegotiation' with Europe, there was a widespread feeling in Brussels that the EU had once again bent over backwards to accommodate the Brits, offering a semi-legal "benefits brake" that would have reduced payouts to EU workers.
They stopped short of giving Cameron his desired 'caps' on EU migrant workers but even at that late stage Cameron could have walked away from the negotiating table, plunging the talks into crisis and - just perhaps - forging a better deal.
But as we know, Downing Street chose not to do that, betting instead that a snap June referendum, backed by a fig-leaf deal, would be enough to get them over the line. As the now former prime minister knows, that was a gross miscalculation.
Unfortunately for Theresa May, her predecessor's failed gamble has backed Britain into a very nasty corner whose nastiness - to judge by the comments of politicians and campaigners on both sides of the post-Brexit debate - is still to be fully appreciated.
The June 23 vote heralds a stepchange from what went before, because it means that Britain and the EU are no longer just seen to be in an adversarial relationship; they really are now at odds, with conflicting interests, starting with the declaration of Article 50.
Until Brexit, the nastiness of negotiations between the UK and EU was ultimately limited by the knowledge that, at end of it all, Britain would still be in the club, playing its key role of strategic bridge to the US and release-valve for the intense Franco-German relationship. A deal had to be done, and it often was. But not any more.
When May invokes Article 50, as European capitals are already putting her under increasing pressure to do, a very different negotiating process begins than the one that unfolded in February.
In those talks Mr Cameron still had the choice to walk away when he didn't like the deal; under Article 50, May emphatically does not have that choice, unless she wants a disorderly exit from the EU, casting the UK into the economic wilderness with no trade deal at all.
Underlying the arguments for Brexit has always been the presumption that the EU 27 will give Britain a decent deal - they wouldn't dare not to - but the risk for Britain (and May herself, who will now have to meet public expectations based on this assumption) is that that turns out to be a fallacy.
It is striking, even after Brexit, how little effort both the British media and its politicians have made to understand the positions and emotions of their soon-to-be-former EU colleagues and now adversaries at the negotiating table.
Given Britain's economic and strategic heft and the flaws and divisions among the 27, a deal can be done with the EU, but it cannot be born of wishful thinking.
As Sun Tzu wrote in the 'Art of War', if you know the enemy and know yourself, "you need not fear the result of a hundred battles", but if you know yourself but not the enemy, "for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat".
Just take the issue of the free movement of people, which will be at the heart of the coming divorce talks, but which is viewed in much of Britain as some federalist shibboleth that any fool can see is entirely outdated and unsustainable.
But that is not how the EU sees it, and under Article 50, they have the whip hand. For the vast majority of the EU 27, free movement of people is indivisible from their idea of Europe - for poorer nations, it is a key reason they aspired to join the EU, while for richer nations it is fundamental to the notion of a postnationalist European ideal that they believe has delivered 70 years of peace.
At an intuitive, emotional level, Brits mostly don't understand this.
An island mentality and the wartime role as unconquered liberator is often cited as the historical reason why Britain has always been the odd-man-out in the European Union, but despite the Erasmus Programme, Easyjet, the Chunnel and the Open Skies, that disconnect continues to this day.
For millions of Europeans the principle of free movement and the Schengen Area is not abstract, or negative, it is the very oxygen of the Union, a very physical incarnation of its political and philosophical raison d'etre. Every day, 1.7 million workers cross borders in Europe to go to work, they speak each other's languages and far more than us, mix, marry and meld across a single landmass. Put another way, free movement is an emotional issue for them, as it is a negative one for many Brits.
So when it comes to accessing the single market, the quid pro quos that Europe will demand for offering a post-EU Britain the right to curb such a fundamental principle will surely reflect that.
Peter Foster is Europe Editor of The Telegraph


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               74 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bank must unleash an inventive package for Brexit bazooka to work

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 667 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Bank of England could not have been clearer that it will respond to Brexit with another dose of monetary stimulus. The medicine will be administered at the Bank's Inflation Report on August 4, its quarterly assessment of the economy, leaving the country in the waiting room for only three weeks. What is less clear is exactly what will be delivered, and how inventive the Bank's Brexit bazooka will be.
Markets and economists expect a cut in interest rates but there is debate about how far the Bank will go. Its earlier guidance that anything below the current level of 0.5 per cent would be counterproductive by damaging building societies and harming lending has changed. It now believes that the so-called zero lower bound is "closer to zero". For many, that means 0.25 per cent.
Andy Haldane, the chief economist, and Gertjan Vlieghe, an external member of the nine-strong monetary policy committee, have floated the idea of negative rates, as seen in Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland. Mark Carney, the governor, strongly believes that negative rates do not work as they squeeze bank profitability and deter lending as savers squirrel more away to make up lost future income.
Quantitative easing is the other obvious policy tool. The Bank has not increased QE since the programme reached £375 billion in August 2012 but economists are sceptical about how much impact a third round of money printing might have. The Bank bought gilts under the programme in an attempt to lower the yield and push investors into riskier asset classes. Yields on ten-year gilts have since fallen to a record low of 0.8 per cent, though, limiting any further upside.
Yields are so low across all maturities that they are causing other problems for banks. One traditional way that lenders make money is "maturity transformation", or borrowing short term and lending long term. Long-term debt should have a significantly higher interest rate, rewarding banks for taking maturity risk. It no longer does. More QE in the current form could therefore backfire.
Mr Carney is acutely aware of the problem. This month, he said: "It's extremely important that any monetary action is well aimed, that it focuses on the domestic economy, that it takes into account potentially unintended, or counterproductive, consequences in the financial sector."
He will also be aware that the new prime minister, Theresa May, has just criticised low rates and QE for entrenching social inequalities. On Monday she said: "Monetary policy - in the form of super-low interest rates and quantitative easing - has helped those on the property ladder at the expense of those who can't afford to own their own home."
Yesterday the Bank hinted at more inventive action.
One policy that is regarded as a potential help is the Funding for Lending scheme, which was launched in 2012 and has been tapped for £58 billion so far. A form of credit easing, it gives banks super cheap money so long as it is lent to small businesses and households.
Victoria Clarke, UK economist at Investec, has also suggested that rahther than increase QE, longerdated gilts in the existing portfolio should be sold and shorter-dated ones bought. That would drive down two-year market rates on which mortgages are priced, helping borrowers while driving up longerterm gilt yields, so helping banks. Alternatively, if the new government embarks on a spending programme the Bank may crank up QE to ensure state borrowing costs remain low. Some have suggested another £75 billion.
The Bank has confirmed that the August stimulus will be a package of measures. It has already relaxed capital requirements on lenders, giving them £5.7 billion of headroom to absorb losses without contracting lending. A rate cut to 0.25 per cent with credit easing and a twist on QE might complete the package. Expect the Brexit bazooka to be inventive.
Philip Aldrick is Economics Editor of The Times
'Mark Carney strongly believes that negative interest rates do not work as they squeeze bank profitability'


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DENMARK (78%); SWITZERLAND (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               75 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: BoE prepares next move to contain Brexit fallout; Rates decision

BYLINE: Chris Giles and Emily Cadman

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 750 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The decision by the Bank of England to hold interest rates in July was a pause for breath and a chance to calibrate its next move, rather than a judgment that the economic damage from Brexit has been contained.
The government might have more of a grip on a new economic strategy, but the BoE remains concerned that shocks from Brexit will damage growth and raise inflation.
Mark Carney, BoE governor, met Philip Hammond, the new chancellor, yesterday and told him the shock from the Brexit vote was serious. Consumer and business confidence has been hit hard, there is likely to be lower business investment, and household consumption and growth are on a significantly lower path with higher inflation.
That much is written clearly in the Monetary Policy Committee minutes, taken on Wednesday as Theresa May was becoming prime minister.
For one member of the committee, Gertjan Vlieghe, the MPC's delay in taking action is a stumble. He voted to cut interest rates immediately a quarter point to leave them at 0.25 per cent, warning that the hit to the economy was sufficient to merit "an immediate loosening of monetary policy, to be supplemented by a package of additional measures in August".
The decision to hold rates will be almost certainly followed next month with some sort of monetary policy easing. The MPC notes show that the committee had already discussed "a range of possible stimulus measures and combinations thereof", while also taking note of the effect of cutting rates or restarting the money printing presses on the financial system. Quantitative easing is under discussion as part of next month's possible response. "Committee members had an initial exchange of views on the various possible packages of measures," the minutes revealed.
But the BoE's inaction yesterday certainly surprised financial markets, which had taken Mr Carney's speech a fortnight ago as a promise to act quickly.
Officials point out that the governor had actually only committed to easing monetary policy in the summer, with "an initial assessment" in July and "a full assessment complete with a new forecast" in August. Since making that speech, however, the BoE lost control of the message and by the start of the meeting, financial markets and most City economists expected a rate cut in the July meeting.
Alan Clarke of Scotiabank, said that "virtually nobody" was expecting a rate cut before Mr Carney's intervention a couple of weeks ago, adding that "for no apparent reason, Governor Carney decided to tease the market, let it price in a high probability of a rate cut, only to disappoint".
"As if the situation wasn't volatile and uncertain enough, the BoE governor poured petrol on the flames. This was a completely unnecessary intervention."
Unusually severe criticism of the MPC also rained in from former members of the committee.
Adam Posen, a member between 2009 and 2012 and now president of the Peterson Institute, argued the committee should have immediately cut rates to zero. "This is not a fine calibration issue," he said. "Brexit is a real economic shock and a change in the fundamentals," he said, arguing that now was the time for the BoE to "get out in front of it".
Sushil Wadhwani, MPC member between 1999 and 2002 and now chief executive of asset manager Wadhwani, drew a parallel with the BoE's response in September 2001, when it cut rates in a specially convened meeting.
While he stressed that central banks should never slavishly follow expectations, unless there is a very good reason to delay, disappointing the markets made it more difficult to be trusted next time. "Given that we are entering a very difficult period, why jeopardise one's credibility?" Mr Wadhwani said.
Others in the academic world also were quick to criticise. Michael McMahon of Warwick university said that waiting "simply adds monetary policy uncertainty to the already elevated uncertainty in the UK".
But these complaints were tempered with significant support from economists who recognised the bank had time to act because the financial markets were calm even though they had moved sharply since the vote to leave the EU .
Jagjit Chadha, director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, said there still "precious little hard data on which to form a judgment".
Costas Milas, of the University of Liverpool, said he believed the MPC was "rightly" waiting for more data to become available.
An immediate cut would have "spooked the markets and led to a self-fulfilling prophecy", he argued.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               76 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 8:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit-backing Telegraph tells its European staff they are still 'welcome'; Publisher emails all staff to assuage any fears it may turn against non-British workers after vote to leave European Union

BYLINE: Mark Sweney

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 296 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Telegraph has moved to reassure its European staff that they "continue to be welcome" as employees, after campaigning heavily for the UK to leave the European Union.
It has emerged that the publisher, which called on Britons to vote to leave the European Union ahead of the referendum, sent an email to try and reassure foreign staff following the historic decision that the UK would leave the EU. 
Murdoch MacLennan, the chief executive of the parent of the Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph, attempted to assuage any fears that the company culture might turn against non-British staff. 
"At the Telegraph we are fortunate to have a talented, energetic and diverse staff that includes many people from other EU member states who have made their home and career here," he said. "I want to underline that colleagues and friends from the EU and from the European Economic Area continue to be very welcome at the Telegraph." 
In the days leading up to the last month's vote the Telegraph published a 2,000-word long editorial in support of leaving the EU, while a poll of its own subscribers found that 69% said they were planning to vote for Brexit. 
"As a company we appreciate the vital role that so many EU citizens play in our business," said MacLennan. "Let me repeat again that all our colleagues working for the Telegraph from across the EU and EEA will continue to be welcomes as valued members of our team, and as part of the energetic and dynamic business we are all working so hard to create." 
He added that in the event that there is an "impact" on EU and EEA citizens working at the Telegraph, a reference to if immigration rules were to change as a result of UK pulling out of the EU, then the company would "of course fully support you and manage the situation". 


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               77 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit bazooka primed after Bank holds rates; Measures to loosen monetary policy deferred until August

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 522 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Bank of England is poised to unleash a Brexit bazooka next month to cushion the economic blow of leaving the European Union after signalling yesterday that it will launch a "package of measures" in August.
The statement of intent came after the Bank's shock decision not to cut interest rates this month. Markets were rattled by the vote to hold rates at 0.5 per cent as they believed the governor had telegraphed an increase by saying on June 30 that "in my view ... some monetary policy easing will likely be required over the summer".
The pound jumped by more than two cents against the dollar to $1.3470 in the seconds after the vote as traders readjusted their positions, before settling back at $1.3305, a 1.6 cent rise on the day. The FTSE 100 fell 70 points after the announcement, before ending the day 15.93 points lower at 6,654,47.
Mark Carney was one of eight members on the Bank's monetary policy committee who voted to leave rates unchanged. Only Gertjan Vlieghe, an external member, wanted an immediate cut to 0.25 per cent. The committee was unanimous in leaving quantitative easing at £375 billion.
Markets quickly settled as it became clear that the anticipated stimulus had just been delayed three weeks to the August 4 Inflation Report meeting. "Most members of the committee expect monetary policy to be loosened in August," the minutes to this month's meeting said.
The strength of the guidance yesterday did little to deter criticism of the governor's communication strategy.
Jonathan Loynes, chief European economist at Capital Economics, said the events "will reinforce Mark Carney's reputation as an unreliable boyfriend.
Each misleading communication reduces the effectiveness of future verbal guidance. Note that markets are now pricing in only a 50 per cent chance of a rate cut by the August meeting, compared to 90 per cent before today's inaction."
Neither economists nor the markets had priced in a July rate cut until the governor's comments last month. Alan Clarke, of Scotiabank, said: "For no apparent reason, Mr Carney decided to tease the market, let it price in a high probability of a rate cut, only to disappoint. As if the situation wasn't volatile and uncertain enough, he poured petrol on the flames."
The Bank is expected next month to cut rates to 0.25 per cent, revisit QE and possibly extend the funding for lending scheme, a source of cheap money for banks that lend to households and small businesses which has been tapped for £58 billion.
Any additional stimulus will be set out alongside the Bank's updated economic forecasts on August 4. It warned yesterday that Brexit "could lead to a materially lower path for growth and notably a higher path for inflation" as well as "a softer employment outlook". The Bank had forecast growth of 2 per cent this year and 2.3 per cent in 2017, and unemployment of about 5 per cent.
It will cut its house price forecast and expects consumer and business spending to dry up, the minutes showed. It also expects "sizeable falls" in commercial real estate prices in the near term. Leading article, page 33 Alistair Osborne, page 43 Philip Aldrick, page 45


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               78 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit blow to family finances will be significant, says Bank

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 532 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: House prices and family finances are under threat from a "significant" slowdown in the economy after Brexit, the Bank of England warned yesterday as it prepared for an interest rate cut in three weeks' time.
The Bank voted eight to one to leave rates on hold at 0.5 per cent this month but said "most members of the [ratesetting] committee expect monetary policy to be loosened in August".
The Bank takes its next rate decision on August 4, alongside its new economic forecasts, but painted a bleak picture for growth and jobs yesterday. In the minutes to this month's policy meeting, it said Brexit "could lead to a significantly lower path for growth" and "a softer employment outlook".
Philip Hammond, the chancellor, met Mark Carney, the Bank governor, yesterday and promised to work with the central bank on a co-ordinated plan over the summer to restore confidence to consumers and business.
In May the Bank had predicted 2 per cent GDP growth this year and 2.3 per cent next year and for unemployment to hold steady at about 5 per cent in both years. Many economists now expect GDP growth to fall below 1 per cent in 2017 and unemployment to rise.
The Bank said yesterday: "The uncertainty flowing from the referendum result was likely to depress economic activity in the near term."
It blamed its gloomy outlook in part on a forecast squeeze in house prices and household income. In May it had expected prices to grow about 6.5 per cent this year and incomes, after inflation and taxes, to climb by 1.5 per cent. "Bank staff had revised down the near-term outlook for house prices," it said. The pound's collapse would increase inflation, it added, which "was likely to impart a drag on households' real income growth". The effect would be to hit household confidence and reduce the consumer spending.
A survey by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors provided further evidence that the housing market was in trouble. New buyer inquiries collapsed at their fastest rate since the 2008 financial crisis and expectations of future sales fell faster than since 1998.
The House of Lords economic affairs committee will warn today that more than 300,000 extra homes will need to be built each year to tackle the "acute" housing crisis.
The government's target of one million homes by 2020 needs to be lifted by 50 per cent to meet a growing elderly population and rising demand, it will say. Although the government has set a target of 200,000 a year, last year only 142,000 were built.
The committee will call for new freedoms for local councils and housing associations to kickstart building saying that the cap on local authority borrowing should end.
Lord Hollick, the Labour chairman, will say that home ownership and renting is becoming unaffordable for many, arguing that "the only way to address this is to increase supply".
He will accuse the government of focusing too much on home ownership and will say that Theresa May must broaden her policy to ensure there are homes to rent. He will add: "It is very concerning that changes to stamp duty for landlords and cuts to social rent could reduce the availability of homes for rent."
News, page 12 Leading article, page 33 Business, page 41


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               79 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit hits family finances, says Bank

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 438 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: House prices and family finances are under threat from a "significant" slowdown in the economy after Brexit, the Bank of England warned yesterday as it prepared for an interest rate cut in three weeks' time.
The Bank voted eight to one to leave rates on hold at 0.5 per cent this month but said "most members of the [ratesetting] committee expect monetary policy to be loosened in August".
The Bank takes its next rate decision on August 4, but painted a bleak picture for growth and jobs yesterday. In the minutes to this month's policy meeting, it said Brexit "could lead to a significantly lower path for growth" and "a softer employment outlook".
Philip Hammond, the chancellor, met Mark Carney, the Bank governor, yesterday and promised to work with the Bank on a plan over the summer to restore confidence.
In May the Bank had predicted 2 per cent GDP growth this year and 2.3 per cent next year and for unemployment to hold steady at about 5 per cent in both years. Many economists now expect GDP growth to fall below 1 per cent in 2017 and unemployment to rise.
The Bank said yesterday: "The uncertainty flowing from the referendum result was likely to depress economic activity in the near term."
It blamed its gloomy outlook in part on a forecast squeeze in house prices and household income. In May it had expected prices to grow about 6.5 per cent this year and incomes, after inflation and taxes, to climb by 1.5 per cent.
"Bank staff had revised down the near-term outlook for house prices," it said. The pound's collapse would increase inflation, it added, which "was likely to impart a drag on households' real income growth". The effect would be to hit household confidence and reduce the consumer spending.
A survey by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors provided further evidence that the housing market was in trouble. New buyer inquiries collapsed at their fastest rate since the 2008 financial crisis and expectations of future sales fell faster than since 1998.
The House of Lords economic affairs committee will warn today that more than 300,000 extra homes will need to be built each year to tackle the "acute" housing crisis.
The government's target of one million homes by 2020 needs to be lifted by 50 per cent to meet a growing elderly population and rising demand, it will say. Although the government has set a target of 200,000 a year, last year only 142,000 were built.
The committee will call for new freedoms for local councils and housing associations to kickstart building saying that the cap on local authority borrowing should end.
ED Conway, PAGE 28 LEADING article, PAGE 31 Business, PAGE 39


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               80 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit kills off French tax cuts

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 535 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: President Hollande blamed Brexit yesterday for forcing him to scrap tax cuts in France, as he defended his use of a statefunded (EURO)10,000-a-month hairdresser to style his thinning hair (Adam Sage writes).
Speaking at the Élysée Palace, in his first public comments since details of his extravagant hairdressing arrangements emerged, the French president said that Britain's exit from the European Union meant that growth forecasts might have to be slashed and businesses would think twice before taking on new staff.
Mr Hollande had been planning to reduce the tax burden next year in the hope that families would forget the (EURO)20 billion of income tax he has imposed since coming to power in 2012. A U-turn now appears likely.
Asked to comment on the revelation this week that he had a personal hairdresser on call at a cost to taxpayers of (EURO)118,000 a year, he sought to dismiss the row by asserting that he had cut his own salary by 30 per cent and reduced the presidency's overall budget from (EURO)109 million a year to (EURO)100 million.
Mr Hollande, 61, said that his predecessors had turned to independent barbers for their haircuts, but acknowledged that his staff had decided to create an inhouse service for his benefit. "As far as the hairdressing expenses are concerned, there were outside services beforehand. I preferred them to be undertaken here," he said.
Olivier Benhamou, the barber, is paid to be on-call 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to tend to the president's receding hairline. There is speculation that Mr Hollande President Hollande, top, put aside worries about Brexit, his hair, and Emmanuel Macron, the economy minister, above with his wife Brigitte, during Bastille Day celebrations, left. Troops from New Zealand including Maori, below, took part has had hair implants to keep him looking young. The disclosure of Mr Benhamou's wages has infuriated French voters, who have been subjected to austerity under Mr Hollande. It has been the most widely discussed issue on the country's social media websites this week.
Mr Hollande said that he could understand that the sum received by Mr Benhamou seemed high to ordinary families, but blamed Sylvie Hubac, his former chief of staff, for the fiasco. "I am not principally responsible," he said.
As the country marked Bastille day with celebrations in the Champs-Élysées, Mr Hollande went on to cast himself as the saviour of a nation whose social cohesion was threatened by his opponents: the far-right National Front and the centre-right Republicans. An election is due to be held in April or May next year.
Mr Hollande also warned Emmanuel Macron, who holds the economy portfolio in the Socialist-led cabinet, that he would have to go if he continued to destabilise the government.
Mr Macron, 38, who has created his own centrist political movement with a view to challenging for the presidency, has ignored such warnings in the past, going so far as to criticise Mr Hollande at a campaign rally this week.
Mr Hollande looked embarrassed at having to answer questions on the challenge from Mr Macron - just as he seemed frustrated at British voters for taking what he described as a "regrettable" decision to leave the European Union.
Graphic
IAN LANGSDON/CHRISTOPHE PETIT TESSON/EPA; CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               81 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit lift for comparison site; Financial services

BYLINE: Joel Lewin and Claer Barrett

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 241 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Moneysupermarket shares jumped nearly 4 per cent yesterday as the price comparison website reported strong revenue growth in the wake of the Brexit referendum.
The company, which enables people to compare the prices of insurance policies, credit cards, loans and energy providers, saw revenues rise 10 per cent to £74m in the three months to June 30.
A trading statement showed fairly strong rises across the board, with the exception of its holiday price comparison site TravelSuperMarket.com, where revenues fell 14 per cent in the period.
Adjusted operating profit, the only profit measure offered by the company, rose 6 per cent during the first half of its trading year to roughly £54m.
Peter Plumb , chief executive, said the company had saved its customers a record £890m so far this year by enabling them to switch providers and find cheaper deals.
"As UK families prepare for life after the Brexit vote, with potentially rising energy prices, rising insurance prices and lower interest rates, our trusted brands and services will be there to make sure household bills are as low and easy to switch as possible," he said.
Christopher J McVey, analyst at Citigroup, said it was a "reassuring" trading update, adding that the business had benefited from momentum returning to insurance across all of its product groups. Expectations for the full-year remain in line with previous guidance.
Shares in Moneysupermarket closed up 3.88 per cent at 281p.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               82 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit ministers can clear up their own mess; Davis, Johnson, Fox and Leadsom were instrumental in creating the EU disaster, so it's poetic justice that they put it right

BYLINE: Philip Collins

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1104 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The message from Theresa May could not have been clearer. One by one David Davis, Boris Johnson, Liam Fox and Andrea Leadsom walked up Downing Street to be told, in effect, by the prime minister: "It's your mess. Now clear it up." From their new vantage points of secretary for exit, foreign secretary, international trade and agriculture, the prominent Leavers, unaccompanied by the sacked assassin Michael Gove, will now have to redeem their promise to the nation. Their chances of doing so are slim, mostly because they have no real idea what their promise was.
A referendum is a binary question which shatters into multiple answers. The mandate that emerges is not confined to the campaign pledges and it is always greater than the precise language used by specific advocates. On the threshold of Downing Street, Syriza Theresa signalled she would start a war for social justice, but she did not mention the key issue on which her government now rests: immigration. If Mr Davis does not negotiate a deal that cuts immigration substantially, the referendum mandate will have been breached.
Which brings us to the serious problem with the advocates of leaving the European Union. They have no real idea what "good" looks like. They don't have any definition of success. They agree only on a single thing, which is that Britain would be better off out of the European Union than in. But on the fiendishly complex question of how that is done and what the settlement may be, they do not know. Worse than that, most of them are not even particularly interested. To them, the gains are all philosophical and psychological. They are measured in the numberless benefit of sovereignty. Leave advocates get impatient when asked to translate this freedom into economic terms. They get annoyed when you ask them what it was all for.
The Davis, Johnson, Fox and Leadsom axis needs to understand that this depends on them now. The consequences are theirs. Given that they believe that leaving the EU will be beneficial to Britain, they have nothing to fear from their new responsibilities.
It has to be said, though, from their demeanour, that you would never know Britain was a short step from paradise. It is astonishing how quickly the Leave campaign has turned from insurgent to victim, determined to carry on moaning even after their victory is confirmed. The absence of anything to say over the first empty weekend was the first sign. The next was the complaint that those who campaigned for Remain had not developed a plan for them to inherit.
So, for the avoidance of doubt, let's deal with the compendium of complaints before www.proceeding.No, I do not wish to run the referendum again. Britain is leaving the EU and should seek the best            www.terms.No, I do not think Britain is doomed outside the EU and, in any case, a fundamental economic position is not caused by my talking anything up or anything            www.down.No, I do not think we can reach a verdict now or any time soon. I know the negotiation will take time and the settled view even            www.longer.No, I am not going to over-interpret any single piece of early data. And no, I am not so mean-minded that I want the process to fail. I live in this country too and I do not wish impoverishment on it just so that I can win an argument, especially when it is someone else who would carry the burden.
I can also conceive of the fact that I might be wrong. I believed the projection that Britain would be worse off if we left the EU because investment would fall during the long period of uncertainty as we try to negotiate ourselves out of complex treaties that seem to me to work well. I believe that we will not be able to gain favourable access to the single market if we abjure freedom of movement, which we now must, and that this will cost us money. I believe the risk to financial services is genuine. I believe that the pound will lose value and, in spite of misleading optimism about exports, this means earnings, savings and investments lose www.value.No doubt I should add numerical precision to my definition of failure. There may be other important variables that I should take into account. But the point is that this is an empirical question. It is possible to define relative success and separate it from failure. I am then happy, once that exercise has been done and the results are in, to concede that I was wrong about the process. I have never held a candle for the EU and I'd rather we succeed than fail. So good luck to the negotiators. I will eat my words with            www.relish.No such humility is returned, I am afraid, from the advocates of Leave who have cleverly constructed a position in which they simply cannot be wrong. They are gearing up, instead, for a war of attribution in which they deny the consequences of leaving the European Union. As we are condemned to live only once, it will be easy to argue that we simply do not know what would have happened had we stayed. They will say that a fall in investment was either caused by something else or wasn't part of the definition of success anyway.
The Economists for Brexit group showed the way during the campaign. They argued, on what seemed to me to be heroic assumptions, that leaving the EU would increase growth by 4 per cent in the long term. Then there is an essay from Mr Davis, the man who now has the task of negotiating the way out, which exhibits his own special brand of complacency. He says blithely that we will have lower prices in the shops, higher wages for the poorest and immigration control. Most of this wish list was, of course, feasible anyway.
Mr Davis goes on to assert that Britain will simply negotiate trade deals with other nations all within two years, in advance of alerting the EU of our notice to quit. The fact that it is, under the current rules, illegal to enter trade negotiations until the two-year process of Article 50 has finished does not worry him. Mr Davis simply assumes the EU will change the rules for his benefit. There is no reason to suppose it will.
Britain has entered a big experiment and we deserve better than this. It is the height of intellectual arrogance to take up a position which cannot be wrong. A proposition that cannot be false is not a real argument; it is a faith. If you declare that all swans are white it is only reasonable to admit that the appearance of a black swan means you were wrong.
The Leave side, scared of what they have done, daren't be specific. Just watch them wriggle. They are wriggling already.
They believe leaving the EU is good, so they have nothing to fear
Leave has constructed a position in which they cannot be wrong
Graphic
David Davis says Brexit will result in both lower prices and higher wages


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               83 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit minister unaware of how EU deals work

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 123 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THE newly-appointed minister in charge of negotiating Britain's exit from the European Union appears to be unaware of how EU trade deals work, it has emerged.
David Davis was appointed as Theresa May's Secretary of State for Exiting the EU immediately after she arrived at Number 10.
The Leave backer and former Europe Minister said during the referendum campaign that Britain would negotiate individual trade deals with other EU countries. However, one of the main features of the EU is that member countries cannot negotiate individual trade deals and instead do so as a bloc of 28.
The rule, which was paraded by other parts of the Leave campaign during the referendum, leaves Mr Davis's original plan for one-onone trade deals in tatters.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               84 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit will affect credit costs, NTMA warns

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Ireland's borrowing costs will ultimately reflect Brexit's economic impact, even if it is now being masked by the European Central Bank's unprecedented support for euro zone financial markets, the National Treasury Management Agency has warned.
Investors in European bonds have been increasingly optimistic since the UK vote that the ECB, which is in the middle of a bond-buying quantitative easing programme, and other central banks will do whatever it takes to shore up market confidence. 
As a result, the market interest rate, or yield, on Ireland's benchmark 10-year bonds has halved, to a record low of 0.4 per cent this week to the surprise of NTMA chief executive Conor O'Kelly. 
Liquidity 
Bond investors "believe in one thing and that's central banks' ability to pump liquidity into the system", Mr O'Kelly said at the release of the agency's annual report.  
"I wouldn't be in any way complacent about that. That's a short-term force in the market place. Ultimately, there will be credit implications and there will be economic implications for Ireland."
The NTMA had no immediate funding pressures, he said, having raised EUR 6 billion of debt so far this year out of a full-year target between EUR 6 billion and EUR 10 billion. However, with Ireland's debt level at over EUR 200 billion, the Brexit referendum was a reminder that the country wasn't immune to domestic or external shocks. 
Diluted 
Mr O'Kelly said news that growth for 2015 was revised up to 26 per cent, driven by one-off factors such as restructuring by multinationals, "diluted" the ability of debt ratios to explain economic improvement.  
The Department of Finance said on Monday revised data had resulted in Ireland's debt-to-GDP ratio falling to 79 per cent, compared to a previous estimate of 94 per cent. The ratio peaked at 123 per cent in 2013.
He said the NTMA has been talking to investors and credit ratings agencies in the past few days, explaining the factors behind the GDP jump. "But when you're explaining, you're losing."
 However, Mr O'Kelly said he did not see ratings agencies "looking hard" at their stance on Ireland until early next year. 


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               85 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit will start UK recession, says Fink; Financials

BYLINE: Stephen Foley in New York

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 472 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's decision to leave the EU will trigger a recession in the British economy, Larry Fink , chief executive of BlackRock, has warned.
The head of the world's largest asset manager predicted Brexit would slash 2 percentage points off UK gross domestic product, cutting growth to "plus or minus half of one per cent" and putting the country into recession.
"I expect a slowdown, as the Bank of England said in their policy statement, and we heard that loud and clear from the leaders of different companies last week," he said. "No one said they would cut any jobs, they just don't see capital expenditure or job creation in the UK, and if they need to add jobs it will have to be on the continent until there is more certainty."
Mr Fink's comments came as BlackRock posted a decline in revenues and profits and said that clients around the world were "pausing" investments because of political and economic uncertainty everywhere.
About 30 per cent of BlackRock's London employees are from continental Europe, and their future was a topic of concern at town hall meetings Mr Fink ran at the company's offices in London and Edinburgh last week.
It was too early to tell what effect Brexit will have on foreign employees, or on BlackRock's business, until trade negotiations took shape, Mr Fink said. But he feared for the UK in the meantime. Many multinationals employed similar numbers of European citizens in Britain, he said, and there was "trepidation" among those residents.
"I would expect them to reduce their consumption, too, because they are frightened [by] what it means for them," he said.
During her successful campaign to become prime minister, Theresa May said EU nationals would be able to remain in the UK if British citizens living in the EU were given the same treatment. But the question of how many jobs may be shifted from the UK to Europe remains open.
Mr Fink predicted UK economic growth would be wiped out while the uncertainty persisted.
As the world's largest asset manager with $4.9tn in holdings, BlackRock is a significant global investor. It also runs the iShares exchange traded funds business, which was a rare bright spot in otherwise gloomy quarterly figures released yesterday.
Revenues fell 3 per cent to $2.8bn and net income was down 4 per cent to $789m, as clients hid money in banks instead of putting it to work in the markets. "Clients do not know what to do with their money," said Mr Fink. "They are afraid and they are pulling back, as evidenced by more than $55tn in bank deposits in the US, China and Japan alone."
Customers of iShares added $16bn in assets in the quarter, but the rest of its retail and institutional businesses suffered outflows, reducing net inflows to $1.5bn.
The strength in ETFs has continued in the third quarter, with net inflows of almost $18bn since the start of July.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               86 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 4:13 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit won't free UK from paying for botched EU farming subsidies, warn audit office; New environment minister, Andrea Leadsom, faces problem of paying the retrospective fines on top of dealing with the end of EU farming subsidies

BYLINE: Fiona Harvey

SECTION: ENVIRONMENT

LENGTH: 1018 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: British taxpayers will still be paying fines to the EU over the mishandling of farming subsidies after the country has left the bloc, the National Audit Office warned on Friday.
At least £660m has already been paid in fines, owing to delays in implementing the rules of the common agricultural policy in the six years to 2013. More fines will follow for the intervening years, as they are levied retrospectively, and leaving the EU does not absolve the UK from responsibility.
The issue adds to the problems facing Andrea Leadsom, the surprise appointment to the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), as she struggles with the looming end of EU farming subsidies. Farmers and conservationists are tussling over what form any new subsidy should take, while the new secretary of state will have to explain her views on subsidies having previously rejected them.
The National Farmers Union (NFU) told the Guardian: "We will obviously be looking for guarantees from government that the support given to our farmers is on a par with that given to farmers in the EU, who will still be our principal competitors."
                     Conservation and health groups have also lobbied the government this week, ahead of Leadsom's appointment, to ensure that any future subsidies from the taxpayer are given only on condition of farmers fulfilling strict requirements to protect the environment. At present only a small proportion of payments are directly tied to environmental stewardship, and some of the current rules are unpopular with sections of the farming community.
                     Big farms do best out of the current subsidy system, with many gaining millions while small farmers make do with a few thousand pounds. Conservationists are concerned because intensive farming has led to big declines in the number of farmland birds and other wildlife, and want any new system to try to halt or reverse that. They are hoping to swing public opinion behind them.
Leadsom will have to negotiate between farmers anxious to preserve their subsidy - currently about £3bn a year, depending on the euro exchange rate - and civil society and conservation groups seeking to ensure current protections are not lost, and are strengthened as far as possible.
The NFU is currently holding a consultation with its members over what form post-Brexit trade agreements for the agricultural sector will take, which will inform its discussions with Defra. However, the organisation was unable to say whether questions on what role environmental protection requirements should play in any future subsidy system would be included in the consultation programme with members, which is still being finalised.
Meurig Raymond, president of the NFU, said he was seeking a meeting with Leadsom as soon as possible to discuss the issues. "At the forefront will be a new domestic agricultural policy," he said. "This should encourage growth, innovation, productivity and profitability."
Farmers are also hoping that a national system of support for farmers would be better administered than payments have been under the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Delays to the single farm payment were behind the fines from the European commission, and have caused hardship for thousands of farmers who have frequently had to wait months for payment, which often makes the difference between profit and loss on small farms.
A Defra spokesman told the Guardian that the department was catching up on the backlog and that the distribution of EU subsidies was proceeding more smoothly: "We understand the importance of rural payments to farmers, and over 87,000 farmers successfully registered on the rural payments system in 2015. It has been used to process and pay over 86,700 farmers - over 99% of all those eligible - their basic payment scheme payment. We are taking action to tackle the causes [of the problems] and are making a significant investment in our mapping data. This will be used to better administer CAP payments."
Raymond insisted that problems with the existing system - the underlying structure, data and technology of which is likely to form the basis of any replacement subsidy regime - must be remedied. "We need a simpler application process and improved delivery for [payments]. We need a guarantee from government that agreement for farmers in agri-environment schemes will be honoured in full," he said.
But there are likely to be headaches far bigger than payment systems and EU fines facing Theresa May's government when it comes to agricultural subsidies. Taken together,  farming and food represent one of the UK's biggest export industries, and any trade agreement with other countries, including EU partners, will be fraught with national concerns on each side. This will constrain the UK's ability to subsidise its farming industry.
Small farmers may be particularly vulnerable to the uncertainty to come. 
Nigel Akehurst, a small farmer in Sussex, who voted remain but whose parents voted to leave, worries that whatever happens the smaller sector will lose out. "Sadly I do think a lot more family farms will go to the wall as many of them don't have the skills to market their product direct and without subsidies they will make even bigger losses than many small farms are making currently," he said. 
"The only positive is that land prices may come down - though I appreciate most politicians see agricultural land, especially in the south east, as building or development land - and that may give more people the opportunity to buy small plots of land to grow and rear niche products to sell direct."
"There are many uncertainties to overcome," said Raymond. "Trade agreements, labour, financial support, legislation are all up in the air. [We want] a domestic agricultural policy that is science-based, adapted to the needs of British farmers, and promotes a profitable, productive and sustainable future for British food and farming."
Less likely to cause problems is Leadsom's own previous slamming of subsidies, as many iron political principles have become malleable under the heat of the referendum.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               87 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Businesses expecting a downturn after Brexit

BYLINE: Greig Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 320 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Almost two thirds of Scottish companies believe that leaving the EU will be bad for them, according to research published today.
The Fraser of Allander Institute at the University of Strathclyde said that the Scottish economy was in a period of uncertainty that puts investment, growth and jobs under threat.
Only a fifth of the 320 respondents to the survey, taken this month, think that Brexit will boost their companies.
Forty per cent believe that Brexit will lead to a decrease in their investment and expansion plans in the future and 34 per cent thought it would be necessary to reduce recruitment until more is known about what will happen. The result of the referendum appears to have taken businesses by surprise: 70 per cent of respondents admitted to having made no plans for a vote to leave.
Graeme Roy, director of the Fraser of Allander Institute, said that a clear majority of companies felt that the impact of leaving the EU would be negative in the short and medium term. "The survey offers some evidence that investment and recruitment plans may be being put on hold," he said.
More than two thirds of businesses said that the removal of uncertainty would be the key issue for them in the UK's negotiations with the EU.
Continued access to the single market was rated extremely important by almost half of respondents. Other issues included the desire for clarity on new trading arrangements, and access to skilled workers from the EU.
"Resolving the current political and economic uncertainty must now be the key priority," Professor Roy said. "It is imperative that policymakers do all that they can to help reduce this source of instability to allow businesses to invest and press ahead with their recruitment plans. "The longer the period of uncertainty continues, the more damaging the impact will be on the economy."
'The longer uncertainty continues, the more damaging the impact will be on the economy'


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               88 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Central Bank holds talks with firms on Brexit fallout

BYLINE: Colm Kelpie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 345 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THE Central Bank will publish revised economic forecasts later this month in the wake of the Brexit vote.
Financial Regulator Cyril Roux and other officials held talks with financial sector representatives yesterday about the potential consequences for the sector, following the outcome of the referendum held in the UK on June 23. Mr Roux said the purpose of the engagement was to allow the sector to present their views on the impacts for the regulated financial sector.
"Prior to and since the referendum, the bank has been in close contact with the firms it supervises, as well as the Irish Government, ECB-SSM and other EU institutions, and continues to monitor carefully developments in the financial markets and on the regulated financial services providers," the Central Bank said in a statement.
Last month, Central Bank Governor Philip Lane said forecasts would be revised, and he warned of uncertainty for some time.
The Central Bank said the revised outlook would be published in the Quarterly Bulletin later in the month.
"The bank is confident that the contingency measures in place are appropriate to address any such issues that may arise in the short to medium term," the bank added.
"In respect of firms or funds potentially seeking to locate in Ireland, the Deputy Governor said the bank remains committed to providing a clear, open and transparent authorisation process while ensuring a rigorous assessment of the applicant against regulatory standards so as to continue to ensure a high, consistent level of consumer protection."
Prof Lane said the Central Bank had prepared for the possibility of a Brexit and that it would continue to closely monitor the risks to financial stability. Meanwhile, the chief economist at the Office for National Statistics in the UK, Joe Grice, said it is "aware" of the appetite among economists for concrete figures on Brexit effects.
"In the short term, we won't see figures fall off a cliff - it will be a longer-term impact," he said. The ONS has been meeting to determine which figures can reliably be used," Mr Grice said.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               89 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Davis willing to go hard route in Brexit talks; New secretary has shown interest in Irish issues but is a veteran Eurosceptic

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 686 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Irish officials waited anxiously to hear the identity of the new Northern Secretary yesterday, but the more significant appointment for Ireland is David Davis to be the British government's Brexit chief.
Prime minister Theresa May has created a new department of state to manage the UK's departure from the EU and appointed Davis, a veteran Eurosceptic who campaigned to leave in the referendum campaign, to head it.
His appointment is the first sign of the type of Brexit that London will see. Since the referendum result, European governments and EU institutions have been waiting to see what Britain wants. 
Nobody is waiting more keenly than Dublin. Now they all have some sort of an idea, judging by an article Davis published on the website conservativehome.com. In it, he says that his preferred outcome - and the most likely one, he says, albeit "after a lot of wrangling" - is to maintain tariff-free access to the single market.
Compatible 
EU members have said that single-market access is only compatible with accepting EU rules on freedom of movement of people - precisely the sticking point with the UK.  
However, Davis is bullish: "Once the European nations realise that we are not going to budge on control of our borders, they will want to talk, in their own interest," he writes. 
Crucially, however, he says Britain should be prepared to just walk away from the EU and rely on World Trade Organisation rules if no satisfactory agreement is possible. That's the so-called hard Brexit. He also says the UK should wait until the end of the year or the beginning of next year before triggering the article 50 mechanism to leave. Most EU members want that done immediately. 
In the meantime, he says, the UK should immediately embark on a series of negotiations for trade deals with major markets outside the EU, which should be completed within 12-24 months. 
Many outside observers say this is extremely optimistic. The influential economics consultancy Eurointelligence described the Davis plan as "utterly bonkers".
Davis also says that there should be consultation with the devolved governments of Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland before the British government opens formal negotiations with the EU.
What does the emerging British plan mean for Ireland? The goal set out by Davis - full or nearly full single market access - is one that the Irish Government will support. 
Worrying 
However, the "hard Brexit" line he suggests if the EU does not play ball is worrying. It raises the prospect of a deterioration in the relationship between Brussels and London - which would be most unwelcome in Dublin - and, necessarily, a full customs border in Ireland.  
The Irish Government's position is to support as close a relationship between the EU and the UK as possible - that having the fewest implications for the Common Travel Area, the North and the trading relationship between Ireland and Britain. However, the emerging Irish strategy is to stress the dangers to the peace process - something which resonates much more strongly in the EU than Ireland's special commercial relationship with the UK.
Davis has demonstrated some interest in Irish issues over the years and an examination of his House of Commons speeches shows some appreciation of the distinct position of the North. As far back as 1987, he was advocating increased funding for integrated education in the North.
Nor is Davis the braying public school Tory Brexiteer of caricature. Raised by a single mother in a council house, he became a leading right-winger and a candidate for the Conservative leadership in 2005 but resigned his House of Commons seat (he won it back in the resulting byelection) in protest against the erosion of civil liberties in anti-terror legislation. Last year he wrote a strong defence of Britain's membership of the European Convention on Human Rights.
His political hero is the 19th century Liberal statesman William Gladstone - the man who famously dedicated much of his political life to solving the "Irish problem". The Irish Government will be hoping Davis demonstrates some of his hero's concern for this country.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); WALES (79%); BELGIUM (77%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               90 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Davy tipping ICG to 'sail through' Brexit wave

BYLINE: Michael Cogley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 377 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: DAVY has tipped Irish Continental Group (ICG) to "sail through" the effects of Brexit but has reduced its earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) targets for the next two years, citing a cautious outlook on car volumes.
The stockbroker has dropped its EBITDA target for the ferry operator for 2016 down to (EURO)85.2m from (EURO)90m. Despite Britain's decision to leave the European Union, Davy has kept its rating for ICG at outperform.
It announced in May that it would invest (EURO)144m in a new ship with a capacity for 1,885 passengers and 300 cars.
Davy analyst Stephen Furlong said the new ship represents "an opportunity to underpin the group's medium-term earnings".
"ICG is a high quality, industrial transport name with an enviable track record of bestin-class operating efficiency and optimal capital allocation.
"However, we are marking to market recent dislocation following the Brexit outcome for current exchange rates and fuel," Mr Furlong said in a note.
Last year the Irish Ferries parent, which is headed up by chief executive Eamonn Rothwell, generated around 20pc, or (EURO)69.5m, of its revenues from sterling point of sales.
ICG's share price was hit heavily following the UK's decision to leave the EU. The Irish company was among a host of firms involved in a bloodbath on the Irish Stock Exchange on the day after the Brexit vote.
Its shares dipped by 9.17pc in early trading on Friday, June 24. ICG shares stood at (EURO)4.60 at 2pm yesterday as it struggles to regain ground lost after the vote.
Analysts have tipped the company to become debt free in 2016. In the opening quarter ICG reduced its net debt to (EURO)25.9m from (EURO)44.3m.
Speaking at the company's annual general meeting in May, Mr Rothwell didn't seem overly concerned by a Brexit, saying preparing for such an event was "a waste of time".
He said that due to the uncertainty around the details of Brexit it wasn't possible to anticipate what the exit deal would look like.
Mr Rothwell, who recently ruled out retirement, made a profit of (EURO)4.43m on the exercise of share options and thier sale soon after last month. In December Irish Continental's market capitalisation exceeded (EURO)1bn for the first time, that has since dropped to (EURO)866m.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); IRELAND (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               91 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Escape the Brexit blues - build a shed

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BRICKS AND MORTAR;NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 602 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Between politics and the weather it has been a weary time for Britons of late. If you are feeling the weight of it, and are tempted to hide out, might we suggest a shed? "Man caves" and "she sheds" are popping up all over the country, yet whatever their intended purpose, there are things to bear in mind when designing a home away from home.
"The key is to see it as an extension of your house" rather than a completely separate building, says Richard Lee, the director of Plankbridge, which designs shepherds' huts. Nadine McCowan Hill, a style expert for www.Wayfair.co.uk, says: "You can afford to be more bold with your colour palette than you might be in the house. Have a go at contrasting styles to what is already in the home, or try out a new look." She recommends a minimalist, Scandi style for a home office or a "Moroccan theme of warm colours and coppers" for a garden getaway.
Jessica Pritchard, of the Posh Shed Company, prefers neutral shades to maximise the light. "We only really do cream and white because we want to make it as light as possible," she says.
However, both agree that the decor should create a calming environment that reflects the purpose of the room.
Lee says if you want to make the most out of your shed, don't use it as a utility room. Pritchard agrees: "A shed too often becomes a dumping ground, but it can be such a great room.
"When decorating, avoid stuffing too much in, as you'll quickly feel cramped," she says. Opt for furnishings that make a room homely. "We use a lot of bunting as it is a great way to make a shed pretty. Inside, we use tongue-and-groove panels, which give a nice finish so you feel it's more like a room than a shed."
For accessories, keep it homely with "a cosy rug, or reed diffuser to scent the room, or a portable radio", Pritchard says.
McCowan Hill suggests including lots of home comforts, such as a comfy armchair with some throws and cushions. "Indoor plants - or faux plants if you aren't green fingered - in some stylish planters will finish it off nicely."
When designing the exterior, don't think of it as a statement piece, avoid garish colours and let it blend in with your garden, Pritchard says. "Pastel shades work best, such as greens and blues." However, if you want something bolder, you should look to "traditional heritage colours". Pritchard recommends Little Greene paint in Juniper Ash. She also suggests using window boxes. "It helps the shed blend with the garden."
And when it comes to size, bigger is not necessarily better. "There is a trend to go bigger but part of the fun is tailoring everything down and keeping it in that space," Lee says. Traditionally a shed is about 8ft x 5ft; Plankbridge opts for 12ft x 5ft - but there is no hard-and-fast rule. Most of all, Pritchard says, "find a size that doesn't overwhelm the garden". With a lack of space, it is important to make the most of your storage. "Shelving is key and it depends entirely on what you want," Pritchard says. She recommends "as much multipurpose shelving as possible, such as a shelf rack that goes from the floor to the top of the eaves".
And do not focus only on the inside of the shed. When planning your space, Pritchard says to "think outside the box".
"Try a hinged stable door or a window in the door to add light and get as much out of the space as possible."
The best thing about a shed is that its usage is changeable. McCowan Hill says you can get more from your shed if it can adapt to the seasons: "For example, in summer you can use it as a bar, while in winter you can create a cosy hideaway to relax in with a good book."
Molly Fleming
Graphic
This writer's hut in Hackney, east London, was designed by Surman Weston. Below: a 7ft x 5ft potting shed, £3,475 by the Posh Shed Company, painted in Juniper Ash


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               92 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: European lenders face up to EUR40bn capital bill after Brexit decision triggers extra annual costs; Banks

BYLINE: Laura Noonan in London

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 499 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: European banks could be forced to put as much as EUR40bn of extra capital into their UK branches as a result of the country's decision to quit the EU , according to a new report from the Boston Consulting Group.
The BCG report also says Brexit will trigger an 8 to 22 per cent rise in annual costs for the banks' capital markets divisions and says this may prompt lenders to withdraw from some activities.
Foreign banks' London operations have been thrown into turmoil by the UK's Leave vote, since they could lose the "passports" that enable them to do business across the entire 28-country bloc if they are licensed in one.
Much of the attention so far has been focused on the US banks , who use London as their gateway to Europe. The BCG report instead focuses on the 60 or so European banks that have branches in the UK, a group that includes international groups such as Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, BNP Paribas, Santander, Société Générale and smaller operators such as Erste Group, Novo Banco, Piraeus and Cyprus Popular Bank.
"Everyone is talking about the US banks' perspective, but the European banks are going to be more impacted," said Phillipe Morel, one of the report's authors. "Europe is not that important to the US banks, it's 20 to 30 per cent of their capital markets profit," he said. "For European banks it's much more important, those banks could be doing 70 per cent of their (capital market) operations in London."
The London branches that these European banks use for their businesses do not need their own capital. That could change after Brexit, if the UK is outside the single market and EU banks cannot rely on their home country licences to do business there.
BCG said that it was "likely" that at least some banks would set up 'intermediate holding companies' in the UK, similar to those that lenders have set up in the US . "Both the UK and the EU could demand that such subsidiaries, especially for systemically important banks, are robustly capitalised, as we see in the US," the researchers said.
German banks alone would need an extra EUR10bn of UK capital, and a similar amount of debt that can be bailed in, BCG said. The researchers put the capital bill across the European banks at EUR30bn to EUR40bn. Mr Morel said the bulk of this cost would fall between the 10 largest banks.
In terms of general operating costs, BCG noted that London would lose at least some of the European capital markets business that goes through the city, which makes up 50 to 70 per cent of the city's capital market activity.
"Clearly, the ability of banks to centre their operations and maintain scale in a single, well-capitalised London entity is now uncertain," the report said. "The additional benefits of liquid, robust markets and access to talent as well as clients may be eroded."
"For some banks, "Brexit" could accelerate their withdrawal from parts of the value chain," BCG said.
This week, JPMorgan published a report saying Brexit could cost investment banks $1.5bn a year each.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); CYPRUS (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               93 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 9:13 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Frank Cottrell Boyce: what's the point of culture in Brexit Britain?; Four years ago the writer helped put together the Olympics opening ceremony. In this exclusive preview of his Proms Lecture he reflects on its cultural legacy in the wake of the referendum

BYLINE: Frank Cottrell Boyce

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 3324 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:                      I love being a writer.                     Never wanted to be anything else.                   
                     When I get into a conversation with a stranger on a train or in the barber's, and it gets to the bit where they say, "And what do you do?" I feel like I'm boasting when I admit, "Actually I'm a writer." Then ... the hammer blow ...                    
                     "Written anything I might have heard of?"                    
                     And the only possible answer is a muttered, "Excuse me, I think this is my stop."                   
                                            Until 2012.                     After that my answer was "I was the writer who helped Danny Boyle create the Olympic Opening Ceremony" brackets, "eat that, Morpurgo."                   
                     For a couple of years whenever my role in the ceremony was mentioned, strangers would clasp my hand, stare into my eyes and thank me for helping them feel proud to be British, even for helping them to feel British at all. The ceremony painted a portrait of a progressive, inclusive, innovative, funny nation stuffing an astonishing heritage into its backpack as it strode into a brilliant future.                    
                     No.                     It didn't paint a portrait. Because at the heart of the show were thousands of volunteers - men and women, mostly not actors and dancers, who turned up to hours and hours of rehearsal, in a car park in Dagenham for no pay, and did it for Britain and for each other.                   
                      The ceremony didn't depict a nation, it revealed it.                     It didn't describe Britain, it WAS Britain - in the way that the Blitz spirit was or Dunkirk or The Last Night of the Proms.                   
                      What. The. Hell. Happened?                   
                      The press these last few weeks has been peppered with articles about how the divisive orgy of fear and loathing that was the referendum campaign was a kind of anti-opening ceremony. Divisive where that was inclusive. Soul-destroying where it was soul-lifting.                    
                     Robert Harris called the campaign "the most depressing, divisive, duplicitous political event of my lifetime". He said that before the murder of the MP Jo Cox. And before we found out that the whole thing had been a kind of merry public school jape. Matthew Parris said that for the first time in his life he was ashamed to be British.                   
                     So was the best and biggest thing I was ever involved in, the best and biggest thing I will ever be involved in .... was that a complete waste of time?                                        
                      The opening ceremony put culture right at the heart of our national narrative. The story that began with the industrial revolution moved on to pop music and to children's literature, as if to say, that's what we did then, this is what we do now.                    
                      Culture is our industry.                     The opening ceremony is supposed to have redefined the nation, heralded a new era of social cohesion and national pride.                     But four years later that definition has been overturned.                   
                      So what was the point?                     What is the point of culture?                   
In 1942 some Czech partisans killed Hitler's anointed successor, ReichsProtektor Reinhard Heydrich. In revenge the Nazis killed every man in the town of Lidice, then razed the town itself to the ground. The only adult male inhabitant who survived was a man named Frantisek Saidl who was in jail at the time. That Christmas he went home and found that there was no trace of the town in which he'd grown up. 
 The most famous creative response to the massacre was a short film - The Silent Village - by that great poet of the cinema Humphrey Jennings. Silent Village traces the work cycle of a pit village, Cwmgiedd, in rural Powys. The first half documents a lost and beautiful way of life, full of solidarity, good manners and singing; in the second half, Jennings tries to bring the horror of Lidice home by imagining it happening in Cwmgiedd. Yes, he imagined that Wales was in Europe. 
The film quietly celebrates the day-to-day routine of the village, something that Jennings achieved by spending months there. As a thank you for the hospitality he received in Cwmgiedd, he gave a series of talks about the coming of the Industrial Revolution using some cuttings he'd begun to collect ... poems, newspaper articles, diary entries: eyewitness accounts of the coming of the machine. 
 Related:  Pandæmonium by Humphrey Jennings - review
He eventually published a selection of these in the London Bulletin but he carried on collecting them, creating a giant matrix of these images - like a prose version of his film masterpiece - Listen to Britain. He never finished it. It was eventually knocked into shape by his daughter Marie-Louise and his Mass Observation colleague Charles Madge and published as a book, Pandaemonium, in 1985. 
The book was well received but not a bestseller, and it went out of print. I would never have come across it if my friend Julien Temple hadn't lent me a copy. If you've watched Julien's brilliant documentaries about Glastonbury or Detroit or Wilko Johnson you'll see that Jennings technique of historical cut-up working its magic. My Dad found a copy of the book in a secondhand shop and bought it for me so I had my own copy. 
A few years later Danny Boyle was directing Frankenstein at the National Theatre and I immediately thought of Pandemonium, which has thrilling stuff in it about electricity and lightning and magnetism. The cheapest copy I could find set me back £42.50. I was generous enough to buy it but not generous enough to forgo mentioning the cost. I handed it over saying: "You'd better read this. It cost me £42.50." Danny loved it. I don't know how much influence it had on Frankenstein because I couldn't get tickets. But when it came to the opening ceremony, it was key. Danny had one key word for us - visceral. How do you make people feel rather than just admire. That's where his idea of forging the rings from muscle and sweat and steel there in the stadium came from. 
Once he'd had that idea, Jennings's book gave us the context, and the chimneys and the steam and the title.
So something that started life as a series of talks in a mining town eventually formed the backbone of the first massive global media event of the digital age - watched, tweeted, "favourited", streamed by billions of people across the planet. Jennings's account of the first Industrial Revolution became in itself a landmark in the new digital revolution. 
The great editor and writer Diana Athill wrote a piece about watching the ceremony and noticing that debt, thinking ... it can't be, can it? No one's read that book. But it is... 
If you want to get a "visceral" sense of how long that journey is, take a look at The Silent Village itself. It's there on YouTube. You can see Cwmgiedd - impossibly remote in time and culture now. It's extraordinary to think that these diffident men with their hats and their ornate facial furniture and these fierce women in their shawls and black and white lives were the first participants in an event that starred Dizzy Rascal and the Arctic Monkeys. 
I've told this story because it seems to me a really clear, beautiful case study in how culture works, of how a cultural legacy is passed on. In particular I want to draw attention to the central role of generosity, kindness. 
No one who had a copy of the book paid for the book. My Dad bought my copy. I bought Danny's .... it was a gift. And this is congruent with the nature of the ceremony. As I said, it was performed by volunteers who asked nothing in return except the joy of doing it. The impulse of delight.
Actually, one person did buy his own copy and that was Rick Smith. A hardback! I said, what did you pay for that? He said, I'm embarrassed to tell you. Rick composed the music for the ceremony. You'll remember it was a kind of percussion concerto led by Evelyn Glennie but accompanied by a thousand drummers. One night he needed to record a mighty shout. It signals a gear-change in his music for that opening section ... at the end of a very long, wet, gruelling, thankless day of rehearsing he addressed his drummers - who by the way were playing buckets not drums because we couldn't afford drums - and said, I can't ask any more of you. It's wet. It's late. It's no disgrace to go home but I do need some of you to stay if you can to record this shout. They stayed. All of them. It was heart-stopping. 
Rick likes to say that music is the liquid architecture in which we live our lives.
I'd like to add that this kind of giving - giving of time, of books, of ideas - is the metabolism that drives culture. It's not just the volunteers but the network of community projects - the faith groups, the church choirs, the community dance projects, pub quiz teams - from which they largely came.
Increasingly the arts are having to justify their own existence in utilitarian financial terms
Why is this worth saying? Because increasingly the arts are having to justify their own existence. And increasingly they do so in utilitarian financial terms.
The phrase "every pound invested on the arts returns seven" has become a kind of mantra. If it's true - great. Thrilling. Essential.
But that verb "invested" distorts our perception of how art happens. Even at the business end. Look at a global West End smash turned Spielberg movie: War Horse. The origins of War Horse lie in Michael Morpurgo 's generosity - he runs a charity called Farms for City Children. He noticed that one of those kids who found it hard to talk to his classmates seemed comfortable around the horses. There's Michael's generosity of attention as well as the straightforward charity of the farm here. For decades the kindest thing you could say about War Horse was that it was an unfairly neglected book. Then ... the alchemy of puppetry and a great movement director in Toby Sedgwick... and then the big hit, again at the National Theatre.
 Innovation doesn't come from the profit motive. 
 Innovation comes from those who are happy to embark on a course of action without quite knowing where it will lead, without doing a feasibility study, without fear of failure or too much hope of reward. The engine of innovation is reckless generosity - something we celebrated at the opening ceremony by having an appearance from Sir Tim Berners-Lee  - inventor (but not patent-holder) of the world wide web. If he'd held on to the patent, the web would have been limited to what he could imagine doing with it. 
 Imagine that. 
 I understand why people reach for the "it's a good investment" defence but I believe that idea that culture works like any other business is not just misleading but is now infecting the way we see cultural participation. Big cultural events like War Horse or the opening ceremony are fed by an ecosystem that depends on all kinds of cultural participation- from parish choirs to local drama groups (Coronation Street has for years been heavily dependent on Oldham Youth Theatre), on community carnivals - whether that's Notting Hill or a Scottish Common Riding or Eid or a Welsh Eisteddfod. On FUN.
 But increasingly, young people are now invited to participate in sports and arts not for fun, not as part of their own growth, but as a potential career path. Adrian Tempany has written brilliantly in his book And the Sun Shines Now about the way children's football has been privatised. What was once a free-range, disorganised sociable activity has now been privatised into a world of junior leagues, soccer camps, goal alerts and skills training. Great if you're going to be a footballer. But who is going to be a footballer? Not many. In the meantime all the other benefits you got from a kick around - independence, physical fitness ... in my own case that priceless thing - an early experience of utter failure. All of those are lost.
Good readers make better engineers, and bakers, and surgeons, and parents and partners and are just a lot happier
 The same is happening around reading. Increasingly I find that when I visit schools as a children's writer I'm expected not so much to entertain children with a story but to inspire and advise young writers. There's a lot of talk of wow words and fronted adverbials and ways to make your sentence more interesting. Of course it's massively important to help children express themselves and to encourage creativity - though, by the way, the phrase "fronted adverbial" has no role in that - but, and again, who's going to be a writer? Not many. So an experience of enrichment becomes an experience of failure. 
 I don't write to help inspire people to become writers. I write to inspire them to become readers. Because I believe good readers make better engineers, and bakers, and surgeons, and parents and partners and are just a lot happier.
 If we infect what happens between the writer and the reader with the vocabulary of transaction then we endanger something absolutely essential. The idea of the gift. The powerful thing about the gift - as opposed to an investment - is that its consequences are impossible to predict. 
 Years ago while working on a film about the war in the Balkans, I became interested in the stories of children who were caught up in the ethnic cleansing. How did it feel to have your life and your relationships turned upside down purely on the grounds of your racial identity? I interviewed a woman who had written about these things. A Roma woman called Mariella Mehr. 
She had grown up in Switzerland where - shockingly - Roma children were taken away from their parents on the thinnest of pretexts, then brought up in institutions where, supposedly, they would have a better chance of becoming valuable Swiss citizens. Mariella had been in thirteen different institutions, narrowly missed a lobotomy and had her own child confiscated. Yet when I met her she was an articulate, charming, outward-looking politically active, distinguished writer. I asked her about all that rebellion, the repeated expulsions ... I asked her ... how did you know there was something to rebel for? How did you know - growing up in this regimented institution where you were defined entirely by race - how did you know you were worth more? And she said said something I have never forgotten ... it's the thing that made me want to be a children's writer ... she said, I read Heidi. 
As a Roma girl, Mehr was given Heidi as part of a programme of integration. But that's not what she took from it
Now I know why she was given Heidi. She was given it because it's a Swiss classic. A national totem. She was given it as part of the programme of integrating herself into Swiss society. But that's not what she took from it. The book stayed with her and became part of the way she thought. It fed a hunger in her. 
 Now. If the teacher had asked her - as children are asked now - to write a letter to Johann Spyri telling him why you loved the book, why it "inspired" you ... (I get a packet of letters like that every week) if she had been asked to write the story from the point of view of Clara ... I feel that the charge of that book would have been earthed. Its fuel spent. The transaction between writer and reader completed. By a thank you letter. 
 Of course there is a place for literary analysis and teaching appreciation. And I actually love those letters. But there's a much much more important place for just feeding the imagination. For just letting things sit. 
 While he was working on the opening ceremony Danny had some meetings with David Hockney and talked to him about the industrial revolution and Hockney gave him this astounding image. Think of it, he says, the sun pours down its energy onto the surface of the planet for millennia. The leaves soak up the energy. The trees fall and turn to coal. Coal is solid sunlight, the stored memory of millions of uninhabited summers. Then one day, in Coalbrookdale, someone opens a hole in the ground and all that stored energy comes pouring out and is consumed in furnaces, engines, motors. 
 When we - teachers, parents, carers, friends - read to our children, I believe that's what we're doing. Laying down strata of fuel, fuel studded with fossils and treasures. If we ask for anything back, we burn it off too soon.
A nation is not an opening ceremony. But it's not a referendum either
 Why is this important? Why am I talking about it? Because I fear that the places where this kind of generosity thrives are being destroyed. What are those places? Public spaces. Parks, playing fields, scout huts, libraries and especially school libraries. I regularly go to schools now where there is no library. Or the library has become a "Learning Resource Centre" - which means it's been kitted out with computers and made to look like a call centre. A book is not a learning resource. It's the knife that picks the lock of your isolation. It's a box of delights.
We are not fighting hard enough to protect that habitat - those playing fields, carnivals and libraries - because we've bought into the idea of culture as career, as something that can thrive just as well in a lesson or a soccer camp. 
 When people talk to me about the contrast between the ceremony and the referendum, I remember something that people have forgotten. No one was expecting the Opening Ceremony to be any good. "Britain's embarrassment," warned the Independent, "will be witnessed by a global audience of a billion people."
 That thought made going to work easy!
 I remember coming out of Three Mills studios one night, walking up to Bromley by Bow tube, past the 24 Hour Tesco feeling weary, dejected and anxious. I was overtaken by a crowd of people. At first I couldn't figure out who they were - all shapes and sizes, all different backgrounds and ethnicities, all headed the same way, each carrying a bottle of water, all of them aglow. Then I realised, these were the volunteers. I caught the train with them and as they piled off at each station I was reminded of Larkin's great poem, The Whitsun Weddings and how, as the train full of weddings steams towards its destination:
 walls of blackened moss Came close, and it was nearly done, this frail Travelling coincidence; and what it held Stood ready to be loosed with all the power That being changed can give. We slowed again, And as the tightened brakes took hold, there swelled A sense of falling, like an arrow-shower Sent out of sight, somewhere becoming rain. 
This was my epiphany. That it was really about the participants. From then on I remembered them in my prayers every night saying let them fly like arrows let them fall like rain. A few days ago I went to see a documentary about them in a cinema in Dalston in East London. Dozens of them turned up, in their costumes, with their buckets and they played outside, with all the power that being changed can give. Still flying like arrows. Still falling like rain. Above all, still togetther. Because if culture has any function at all, it is that. To bring us together, round the campfire, the television, the stadium, or the Albert Hall. 
 They are still there. A nation is not an opening ceremony. But it's not a referendum either. A nation is a project. As Larkin says earlier in his poem, it is a "frail travelling coincidence". The nation we saw in the opening ceremony and the nation we saw in the referendum are both real. They're two parts of diptych. One holds out the possibility of inclusion and ease. The other might be seen as a kind of scream of pain and fury that tells us how it feels to be excluded from that ease. 
 We need to listen to both.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               94 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: From steamers to stuffed walruses: Britain's 25 best small museums; Taking a post-Brexit summer staycation? Avoid the crowds at the Science Museum and instead head to one of the UK's littler gems in our guide

BYLINE: Tom Stewart

SECTION: T2;NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1723 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: 1 Dulwich Picture Gallery, London SE21
Designed by the Regency architect Sir John Soane in low-cost, democratic brick, this is the world's first purpose-built public art gallery. The collection housed in its graceful interior contains scores of Old Master paintings alongside the current series of sensational exhibitions dedicated to "critically neglected" 20th-century artists, most recently Nikolai Astrup and Winifred Knights.
20 8693 5254, closed Mon except bank holidays
2 SS Great Britain, Bristol
"Discover the ship that changed the world!" exclaims the SS Great Britain museum, home of Isambard Kingdom Brunel's 1845 engineering marvel - the first iron steamer to cross the Atlantic. A "glass sea", where the water would have been, lets visitors experience life on deck, down below and under the sea, among the enormous propellers.
0117 926680, open daily
3 Jodrell Bank Discovery Centre, Macclesfield Jodrell Bank's colossal radio telescope probes the deepest depths of the cosmos. Uncover the enigmas of space in the interactive discovery centre, with astronomers from the University of Manchester on hand to explain all things intergalactic.
01477 571766, open daily
4 Ditchling Museum of Art and Craft, East Sussex A green and pleasant village, Ditchling has been home to the controversial artist Eric Gill, the Snowman author Raymond Briggs and Edward Johnston, the designer of the original London Underground typeface. The museum displays the work of these remarkable locals and their brilliant contemporaries.
1273 844744, closed Mon
5 Jupiter Artland, Wilkieston, Edinburgh Bound by giant, surreal spirals of grass and water, the drive up to Bonnington House makes it clear that this is no ordinary country estate. Set up by Nicky and Robert Wilson in their (large) back garden, this sculpture park is full of big names (Anish Kapoor, Antony Gormley, Cornelia Parker) and smaller animals (donkeys, sheep and the odd alpaca).
01506 889900, closed Mon-Wed
6 Horniman Museum, London SE23 Its crowning glory may be a majestic (if overstuffed) walrus, but it's the museum's collection of 350,000 items from every corner of the globe that make the Horniman an anthropologist's paradise. This summer's Festival of Brasil includes a model favela in the gardens as well as art and performances.
20 8699 1872, open daily
7 Robert Smail's Printing Works, Innerleithen, Scottish Borders Founded in 1866, Smail's was a family printing firm that resisted the advance of technology right up until its final owner gave it to the National Trust for Scotland 130 years later. Visitors can be a printer's apprentice, and try their hand at typesetting and mechanical printing. Amazingly, the machinery is still used to print some of the trust's material today.
01896 830206, open March 25 to October 31, closed Tue-Thu
8 Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford The archaeological and anthropological collection of the University of Oxford is a treasure trove. Towered over by an 11m totem pole from British Columbia, the collection is arranged according to purpose not origin, so that different ways of life are shown together. Look out for the sinister "witch in a bottle".
1865 270927, open daily
9 Old Operating Theatre and Herb Garret, London SE1 Hidden inside a church on the original site of St Thomas' Hospital, the herb garret was used to store and dry opium poppies until it was converted into an operating theatre in 1822 - well before the development of proper anaesthesia. You can almost hear the screams of patients strapped to the wooden table for a rudimentary amputation (or worse).
020 7188 2679, open daily
10Manchester Jewish Museum Once a place of worship for the city's population of Sephardic Jews, this Moorish-revival former synagogue is the only Jewish museum in the UK outside London. Its interior has been restored and preserved to help visitors learn about Jewish religious life, while exhibitions tell the compelling individual stories of Judaism in Manchester.
161 834 9879, closed Saturday
11Norwich Castle Museum A striking white stone keep is all that remains today of William the Conqueror's Norfolk stronghold. The collection it houses includes gold torcs and brooches from the Iron Age Snettisham Hoard and the needlework of Lorina Bulwer, a Norwich woman who, from the grim confines of a workhouse, documented her anger and indignation in powerful expressionist samplers.
1603 493625, open daily
12Whitby Museum, Pannett Park Associations with Count Dracula have made it a destination for goths and there can't be many places so closely associated with the occult as Whitby. The delightfully haphazard museum's "hand of glory" - the pickled hand of a hanged man - is surely less of a surprise here than it would be anywhere else. Model ships and cases of carved Whitby jet are on offer for the squeamish.
1947 602908, open daily
13Charleston House, Firle, East Sussex It isn't hard to see why Virginia Woolf and the rest of the Bloomsbury set chose this, the house of their artist friends Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant, as their countryside retreat. Its interiors match Italianate frescoes with vivid post-impressionism; there's a beautiful walled garden and paintings by Renoir and Delacroix.
1323 811265, closed Mon-Tue
14Mary Rose Museum, Portsmouth The flagship of Henry VIII's naval fleet, the Mary Rose was sunk by the French in 1545 and for more than 400 years lay at the bottom of the Solent. Conservation work on the majestic Tudor warship was completed only this year and visitors can now view it - and the 19,000 objects found on board - in its spectacular new home in the Portsmouth Historic Dockyards.
2392 812931, reopening July 20
15Wallace Collection, London W1 Sir Richard Wallace's widow gave his family's collection of paintings, furniture, armour and porcelain to the nation in 1897 on the condition that nothing be added or taken away. The result showcases five generations of (mostly impeccable) taste in the same handsome 18th-century house that the work was bought for. The glass-roofed courtyard restaurant is fabulous.
20 7563 9500, open daily
16Hunterian Museum, London WC2 Where else could you find Churchill's dentures, the skeleton of the 18th-century "Irish Giant" Charles Byrne and thousands of antique surgical instruments all together? The museum of the Royal College of Surgeons is a must-see for anyone intrigued by the ins and outs of the human body, and what happens to it when things go wrong.
20 7405 3474, closed Sun-Mon
17Abbot Hall Gallery, Kendal, Cumbria Best known for its work by local lads George Romney and John Ruskin, this handsome Lake District house also exhibits modern art. On permanent display are sculptures by Barbara Hepworth and Jean Arp and paintings by David Hockney, David Bomberg and Graham Sutherland as well as changing temporary exhibitions.
1539 722464, closed Sun
18Farley Farm House, Chiddingly, East Sussex The surrealist artist Roland Penrose and his photographer wife Lee Miller turned their farmhouse into a meeting place for some of the leading lights of 20th-century art. Man Ray, Joan Miró and Pablo Picasso were all visitors, and the place is full of the work they left behind as thank-you gifts. Tours of the house, led by Tony Penrose, Miller and Penrose's son, are by appointment.
1825 872856, open Sun, tours only
19Leighton House, London W14 The Victorian painter Frederic, Lord Leighton had a taste for the exotic, made clear by his purpose-built home and studio. The Arab Hall is an orientalist kaleidoscope of a room, constructed to show off his huge collection of Middle Eastern tiles, and Flaming June, Leighton's best-known work, which returns to the museum from its improbable home in Puerto Rico for five months this November.
20 7602 3316, closed Tue
20Geffrye Museum, London E2 Each a snapshot of domestic bliss in a different historical era, the museum's 11 living rooms chart the evolution of British taste and society from 1600 to the present day. It was overcrowding and pollution that led these 18th-century almshouses to be transformed into a museum in 1914, but today the site's period gardens make it a verdant oasis of calm.
20 7739 9893, closed Mon except bank holidays 21Watts Gallery, Guildford "I paint ideas, not things," wrote the celebrated Victorian painter George Frederic Watts. There are more than a hundred of those ideas on show here at the UK's only purpose-built gallery devoted to the work of one artist. Newly restored this year is the studio that he shared with his wife, the artist Mary Watts, and, completing the "artists' village", Limnerslease - the Arts and Crafts manor where the couple lived.
01483 810235, closed Mon except bank holidays
22Royal Albert Memorial Museum, Exeter This museum is as varied as they come. The Ancient Egypt display includes the beautiful coffin of the noblewoman Shep en-Mut and there's a treat for budding Egyptologists this summer, when they can join a re-enactment of her mummification. It also runs events to help visitors with dementia to enjoy its collections.
1392 265858, closed Mon and bank holidays
23 Sir John Soane's Museum, London WC2 When the alabaster sarcophagus of pharaoh Seti I arrived at Sir John Soane's home-cum-museum in 1824, the architect was so eager to show it off he held a three-day party for nearly 900 guests. Antiquities, paintings and a vast collection of architectural drawings fill every nook and cranny of these three houses knocked together, which are preserved exactly as Soane left them in 1837.
020 7405 2107, closed Sun-Mon
24Big Pit National Coal Museum, Blaenafon, Wales It may have become a museum in 1983 and a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2000, but you still need a hard hat, safety lamp and rebreather on the miner-led tours of this subterranean industrial landscape.
The baths and restored canteen show what life was like above ground for the generations of miners who toiled away some 90m below the Brecon Beacons.
300 1112333, open daily
25Dylan Thomas Birthplace, Uplands, Swansea "Hard chair. Nice view of wall through window. Lunatic asylum mile off."
Dylan Thomas wasn't exactly taken with his room at 5 Cwmdonkin Drive, his upwardly mobile parents' actually very elegant home. Decide for yourself on a tour of where Thomas spent the first 23 years of his life and wrote more than two thirds of his published work.
1792 472555, open daily
Compiled by Tom Stewart
Graphic
Above: Robert Smail's Printing Works. Below, from top: the Geffrye Museum; an artwork in the garden of Farley Farm HouseJupiter Artland and, below, the Horniman MuseumCOVER: BEN STANSALL/GETTY IMAGES. BELOW: STUART LEECH; ALAMY; ALLAN POLLOK-MORRIS/JUPITER ARTLAND; PAUL DODDSAbove, from top: SS Great Britain at Bristol Harbour; Dulwich Picture Gallery. Below: Charleston House


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); OXFORD, ENGLAND (77%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); SCOTLAND (88%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               95 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: George Osborne's austerity choked off the recovery: Brexit is his legacy; The former chancellor's reputation lies in tatters after six years of punishing the poor and rewarding the rich prompted the referendum revolt

BYLINE: Aditya Chakrabortty

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1278 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: By March 2015, George Osborne was pulling together his final budget before the general election. The austerity chancellor had already hacked billions from health, education and social security; now he planned to slash billions more. But he had prepared one massive give-away: the complete abolition of taxes on savings, worth well over £1bn in lost revenue.
 Related:  The Brexit vote will kill austerity | David Blanchflower
It was costly, at a time when the government was cutting to the bone. It was unjust, throwing millions at the richest, who needed it least. And it was a kick in the teeth to all those whose lives had been turned upside down in the past five years. The idea was blocked by Nick Clegg and his Liberal Democrat coalition partners.
Osborne's response is recorded by David Laws, Clegg's ally in government negotiations. It ranks as among the most revealing things ever said about the Conservatives' austerity strategy.
The multi-million-pound spending spree wasn't justifiable, admitted Osborne, according to Laws' recent memoir, Coalition. "It will only really be of help to stupid, affluent and lazy people, who can't be bothered to put their savings away into tax-efficient vehicles!" said Osborne. "But it will still be very popular - we have polled it."
Disabled people could kill themselves to put an end to the government's reign of terror, and the chancellor would shrug. Working-class kids could live on foodbank lunches and ministers would claim they had no alternative. But shovelling cash at the people seen as undeserving by their very own benefactor? That, Mr Austerity would happily do. Anything to buy votes.
Remember that exchange as the moist-eyed tributes to Osborne come in over the next few days from his friends in the Conservative party and press. " A great chancellor, " says his former aide. The man himself has kept it uncharacteristically modest: "I hope I've left the economy in a better state than I found it."
If only, George. While at Oxford, Osborne was a member of the Bullingdon Club and during his six years at Number 11, he trashed the economy as thoroughly as the Bullingdon boys trashed their restaurants.
Osborne used evidence the way a drunk uses lampposts - not for illumination, merely to support him in his excesses
Under him, Britain has endured its weakest recovery in well over 100 years. The average worker is still worse off than they were before the banks collapsed in 2008. The chancellor, who promised a march of the makers, has presided over the collapse of our steel industry. The enemy of government borrowing has bequeathed to the nation a public debt burden almost three times what it was when Margaret Thatcher was ejected from office.
The arch defender of our credit rating has seen Britain lose its AAA status. And now he leaves the country staring into what David Blanchflower - the former Bank of England rate-setter who predicted the last crash - now warns could be "a crisis bigger than Lehman Brothers: a political and economic disaster".
Osborne's fiscal rules have been either broken or discarded, and where their replacement should be is instead a complete vacuum. The man praised for his " strategic grip " by his former permanent secretary admitted last month that he hadn't bothered coming up with a post-Brexit strategy. Britain is adrift in what could be the choppiest waters in decades without a fiscal policy, a paddle - or even a map.
None of this is accidental. All of it could have been foreseen - indeed, was foreseen by some of us. But it is the direct result of a sniggering callousness that punished the poor while rewarding the rich, that promised greater power for the provinces while shunting ever more money to central London, that bilked the young of their futures while bribing their grandparents all the way to the ballot box.
 Related:  Austerity is far more than just cuts. It's about privatising everything we own | Aditya Chakrabortty
Perhaps the biggest charge historians will make against the chancellor is that his unfair, unreasonable economics helped produce the vote to leave Europe.
At the heart of Osbornomics were two contradictory impulses. First, and most important, was his belief that the state was " crowding out private endeavour ". His remedy was simple: slash the public sector and cut taxes and - hey presto! - you have a flourishing economy. This is what produced the wild optimism of those early forecasts of a historic boom in business investment (which never came) and the deficit paid off within five years (a deadline that was soon extended to 10 years).
To bolster his case, Osborne used evidence the way a drunk uses lampposts - not for illumination, merely to support him in his excesses. He often quoted a paper by Carmen Rheinhart and Ken Rogoff predicting disaster if public debt got too high. The finding was utterly debunked by a 20-something student, but Osborne kept quoting it anyway. The result was that the UK took longer to come out of its slump and was robbed of income - until panicky backbenchers forced Downing Street to park the strategy and chase growth from any source, especially the housing market.
The other part of Osbornomics stemmed from a justified desire to "rebalance" the economy, away from the City and London towards other industries and parts of the country. That would have required serious analysis and investment. What it got was glibness and austerity economics.
The "march of the makers" ended with the collapse of the Redcar and Port Talbot steelworks. As for the much-vaunted "northern powerhouse", it was always a branding exercise rather than anything serious. After Clegg lobbied him to include Sheffield, he came out of the meeting chuckling to Laws: "George is hilarious. He immediately suggested including Sheffield and just dropping Leeds." Sheffield, Leeds: to a Notting Hill boy they're all oop north, aren't they?
It was all just a hi-vis gag: according to the government's own figures from last July, of all the spending on infrastructure on which work is actually under way, almost 50p of every pound is going to London. The north-east is getting less than a penny. Alongside this are the findings of Steve Fothergill and Christina Beatty, showing how the Tories' welfare cuts left the prosperous south-east and booming inner London almost untouched. According to the authors, the areas hit hardest were "older industrial areas, less prosperous seaside towns, some London boroughs". In other words, Brexit-land.
Thatcher and Blair might have left parts of the country battered and feeble, but it was Osborne who cut off their life support, by taking away the public sector jobs and benefits. It was Osborne who created the post-crash economy of low pay and zero-hours contracts, at the apex of which stand the likes of Mike Ashley and Philip Green. It was Osborne who took the tax revenue from eastern European workers but refused to reinvest it in schools and local government, thus stoking community tensions. It was Osborne who indulged in the divide-and-rule rhetoric of skivers v strivers. He has to take part of the blame for Brexit, even while he no longer has to shoulder the responsibility for it.
It's his successor, Philip Hammond, who will face the news of big businesses pulling investment, workers getting less work and shops receiving less money. Of Mark Carney admitting the Bank of England has precious little room for manoeuvre - as a direct consequence of Osborne's failure. To save the economy, Hammond will have to repudiate Osbornomics. I fear that that remains unthinkable for a Tory.
Still, George, what larks, eh? Now on to the non-executive directorships and six-figure speeches.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               96 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hammond and Carney plot way to save economy from recession;   BoE puts rate decision on pause   New chancellor takes 'pragmatic approach' to Brexit

BYLINE: Chris Giles and George Parker

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 515 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's new chancellor and its central bank governor will spend the summer thrashing out a co-ordinated plan to restore confidence to households and business as they try to prevent the economy sliding into recession in the wake of the vote to leave the EU.
Philip Hammond's pledge to work with Bank of England chief Mark Carney came shortly before the central bank said it would pause before deciding whether to take action in August to provide monetary stimulus to the economy.
With interest rates already close to zero, any boost to economic growth amid Brexit-related uncertainty is likely to need co-ordinated action by the central bank alongside lower taxes and some mitigation of the planned cuts to public spending.
In his first full day as chancellor, Mr Hammond made concerted efforts to reassure companies that the new government would "do whatever is necessary to keep the economy on track".
As he met Mr Carney in the morning, the new chancellor said the Treasury had evidence of business investment decisions "being paused" and he wanted to reassure companies that the government would take a "pragmatic approach" to Brexit, which would "protect the British economy".
He added that the summer would be the time "we will want to work carefully with the governor of the BoE and others . . . to prepare for the autumn statement when we will signal and set out the plans for the economy in the very different circumstances that we now face".
Mr Hammond is widely viewed as more hawkish on spending than the new prime minister, Theresa May. But he made clear he was willing to consider all possible avenues for boosting the economy, including fiscal stimulus.
One priority will be whether the Treasury can speed up infrastructure spending with additional government guarantees and, perhaps, greater borrowing at historically low interest rates.
Mrs May has called for more Treasury infrastructure project bonds to keep the economy on track in the months ahead. But she stopped short of creating a new "infrastructure ministry" yesterday. Instead, she combined business and energy - leaving transport on its own.
"Of course we've got to reduce the deficit further but looking at how and when and at what pace we do that . . . is something we now need to consider in the light of the new circumstances that the economy is facing," Mr Hammond said.
His concerns were shared by the BoE's Monetary Policy Committee. Although it voted eight to one to keep interest rates on hold at 0.5 per cent, it signalled it would provide monetary stimulus in early August as the economy was on a "significantly lower path for growth".
The BoE minutes noted "preliminary signs that the [Brexit] result has affected sentiment among households and companies, with sharp falls in some measures of business and consumer confidence".
The BoE's inaction surprised markets, which expected a rate cut. Sterling raced higher, gaining 2.7 per cent to reach a peak of $1.3470. It later eased back, closing up 1.5 per cent at $1.3336.
Leadership shake-up pages 2-3 Editorial Comment page 10 Comment page 11 Markets pages 28-29


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               97 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 6:47 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Horror in Nice and the security cost of Brexit

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 151 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As a British Francophile, and former student at Nice university, the call from Foreign Secretary Johnson for an ever closer union of our countries ( Report, 14 July) shocked me by the bitter irony of his having destroyed that at EU level. It is heartbreaking that our governments, which should be focusing on defending us all from our ever-present enemies, are forced instead to waste enormous energies on all this Brexit madness, which so divides us, and which Johnson himself has inflicted on us. Andrew RosemarineManchester
· The dreadful news from France reinforces why we should stay together and work for a strong, equal and united Europe. Liberty, equality, fraternity and peace in Europe today... and maybe tomorrow in the world. Maria Ryszkowska-LewisLondon
                       · Join the debate - email                         guardian.letters@theguardian.com                                        


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               98 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ireland needs its own minister for Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 298 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THE Brexit vote convulsed the British political establishment. On this side of the Irish Sea, the damage of its reverberations is still being assessed in dismay. Meanwhile, John Bull has dusted itself off, ready for the next battle. And it will be a battle. Stage two for Britain is about getting the best deal it can out of Brussels. To this end, in London there is already a new prime minister and cabinet. Let's not forget that it took us 70 days just to put a Government together.
Chancellor Merkel has decreed that there will be no special deal for Ireland. We cannot take this lying www.down.No other country will be hit as hard as this one by the British decision to decamp. In view of the scale of the risks, the case for the appointment of a specific minister to manage Brexit and fight for the Irish interest is overwhelming. In the short term, we must deal with the prospect of competing against a weaker sterling and a possible change in the status of the Border, affecting the peace process. The adverse impact on the economy for pensions and for businesses must also be contained.
Britain is in a far better place to absorb and manage the fallout and yet it saw fit to task a minister with handling it. There is no downside to our following suit, considering the stakes involved. In his book 'Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy', Raghuram G Rajan, wrote: "Not taking risks one doesn't understand is often the best form of risk management."
We must not dice with chance. An unchecked resolve to take risk without due regard to the dangers became almost institutional in the run-up to the crash. There is nothing to be lost from being cautious.
A minister armed with the right experience, knowledge and insight is essential to manage these variables.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               99 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ireland needs more 'fiscal buffers' than norm, says Moody's; Central Bank to revise Irish economic forecasts this month following Brexit vote

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Moody's has said Ireland's highly volatile economic performance is one of its main concerns about the country's creditworthiness. 
The assessment came as Central Bank deputy governor Cyril Roux told financial sector bodies the bank would revise its Irish economic forecasts and risk assessment this month after the Brexit vote. 
Ireland probably needs more "fiscal and financial buffers" than is the norm for more stable economies to maintain a similar rating, Kathrin Muehlbronner, Moody's lead analyst on Ireland, said in a note following news this week that the country's economy soared 26 per cent in 2015. 
"We caution that the revision to the 2015 gross domestic product growth numbers were heavily distorted by the transactions of a number of multinational entities which have a limited impact on the domestic economy and the Government's repayment capacity," she said. 
Pressures 
Moody's said while it expects the Government to continue to exceed budgetary fiscal targets, "there are emerging spending pressures, particularly in the healthcare sector".  
Speaking at a round-table discussion yesterday, Mr Roux said the bank has remained in close contact with the firms it supervised, the Government, the European Central Bank and its supervisory arm, as well as other EU institutions since the referendum. 
The Central Bank's governor, Philip Lane, had previously told staff after the UK referendum that the bank would review its economic forecasts as a result. 
Minister for Finance Michael Noonan has said the UK decision would likely shave 0.5 per cent off Ireland's growth rate this year. 
Financial markets 
Mr Roux told financial sector representatives that the bank "continues to monitor carefully developments in the financial markets", a spokeswoman for the Central Bank said.  
As Irish officials see a number of financial services firms moving business to Dublin from Britain in the wake of Brexit, Mr Roux said: "The bank remains committed to providing a clear, open and transparent authorisation process while ensuring a rigorous assessment of the applicant against regulatory standards so as to continue to ensure a high, consistent level of consumer protection." 
Mr Roux said the bank "is confident that the contingency measures in place are appropriate to address any such issues that may arise in the short to medium term". 
Moody's downgraded Ireland's debt rating at the height of the financial crisis in 2011 to junk, which is below what it considers investment grade. 
While the agency has been slower than its peers to upgrade Ireland in recent years as its finances improved, it surprised most economists in May by upgrading the State to an A rating. 
It was the last among the three main ratings firms to return Ireland to the A club. 


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               100 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: JPMorgan grilled over Brexit plans after Dimon's grim warning; Banks: Future path

BYLINE: Ben McLannahan in New York

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 644 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: JPMorgan Chase wanted to talk about a "strong" quarter as it presented results for April to June yesterday: loan growth 16 per cent higher than a year earlier, disciplined pricing in car loans, a big pick-up in mortgages.
However, Wall Street analysts were much more interested in the future. On an hour-long call, they peppered top executives at America's biggest bank with questions on Brexit. What would it mean if the UK really left the EU? What would be the effects on costs and revenues? What plans have you made for this "monumental" event?
The grilling came after Jamie Dimon was indirectly rebuked by senior City of London figures for appearing to talk down the UK's prospects in the wake of the referendum. Last month the bank's chairman and chief executive had shared a stage with George Osborne, the former chancellor, warning that "thousands" of UK jobs at the bank were at risk - a warning he repeated during a trip to Rome last week, stressing that it applied to a worst-case scenario.
The tone was different yesterday. Marianne Lake , chief financial officer, said the bank would take its time to sift possible outcomes, "depending on when Article 50 is invoked". Mr Dimon said that whatever happened, the bank would be backing London and the EU in general. He said he expected the UK economy to be hit "a little bit", but it would be "years" before the bank could properly "adjust to the new reality".
"We don't think we can answer or make certain all these things you want to know because there are a lot of parties involved," he said, adding that if costs rose, "so be it; I'm not really worried about it". The "most important thing", he said, "is that we will continue in every single country to serve our clients day in and day out. I'm hoping the EU is sensible, but we're going to be prepared . . . There is this range of outcomes."
The more sober tone was sensible, said one Wall Street analyst, notwithstanding the telling-off from senior UK bankers. Like most of the big banks, JPMorgan is heavily geared to London. The UK is home to more than three-quarters of the front-office staff of the top 12 investment banks across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, according to Coalition, a consultancy - even though it accounts for less than half of total revenues from the region. One of JPMorgan's London staff is Daniel Pinto, the Argentina-born head of the corporate and investment banking unit, who has lived there for 20 years.
"You don't want to spook your employees," said the analyst, speaking on condition of anonymity. "I think before the vote [Mr Dimon] wanted to highlight some of the risks. But now that the outcome has played out as it has, he has to reassure the troops a bit."
Otherwise, talk on the analysts' call was dominated by the outlook for interest rates - pretty bleak - and for credit quality, with several analysts asking about reserve-building in the credit card portfolio. Net charge-offs in that business, where assets grew 4 per cent over the year to $132bn, have crept up for three quarters in a row, albeit from historically low levels.
Steven Chubak of Nomura said the market is trying to get a grip on "the distinction between credit deterioration and normalisation". Is this a reversion to the mean, or something more sinister?
Analysts also remarked on the rapid growth in commercial real estate, where revenues were up more than five times from the same period a year earlier, to $144m. One likened the growth in the sector to a "weed" - prompting Ms Lake to correct him with "sunflower".
But Brexit was the topic du jour, with questions on the bank's ability to retain its benefit of "passporting" UK activities across the EU. "We'd like to think we'd continue to be headquartered in London, that would be our preference. But it'll be a long time before we get certainty. It's too early to say," said Ms Lake.
See Lex


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (74%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               101 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hiscox profits bolstered by sterling's fall in wake of Brexit vote; Insurance

BYLINE: Oliver Ralph, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 475 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The post-Brexit collapse in the value of sterling has boosted Hiscox as the impact of foreign currency translation sent the insurer's first-half profits soaring.
Hiscox generates three-quarters of its premiums in currencies other than the pound - mostly euros and US dollars. Sterling depreciated 10 per cent against the US dollar between the day of Britian's vote to leave the EU and Hiscox's half-year end on June 30.
Reporting results yesterday, it said that pre-tax profits had risen by more than 50 per cent to £206m. Strip out the impact of foreign exchange, however, and the rise turns into a 21 per cent fall in profits to £119m.
Bronek Masojada , Hiscox's chief executive, said that the foreign exchange moves were a side issue.
"Rather than being distracted by the volatility and the front page noise, the focus is on winning customers," he said.
"The benefits of diversifying from the London market, which we started decades ago, are showing through."
Like other insurers, Hiscox has been finding life tough in the commercial insurance market as an influx of capital to back new business has been pushing rates down over the past few years.
The company's pre-FX profits in the London market - which covers areas such as marine, energy, aviation and big-ticket property - slipped a fifth to £20m as soft rates in some areas combined with large claims for the Alberta wildfires , Houston floods and a problem in the Jubilee oilfield off the coast of Ghana.
Instead, it has switched its focus to retail markets where it sells a range of policies to consumers and small businesses. Retail is the biggest contributor to group profits, although earnings here also fell - by 7 per cent to £68m. The decline was largely due to weakness in Europe, where Hiscox faced EUR5m of flood losses in France and Germany .
However, Mr Masojada pointed out that the combined ratio (claims and costs as a proportion of premiums) in the retail business of 85 per cent was better than the target range of 90 per cent to 95 per cent.
Hiscox announced a 6 per cent increase in the dividend, to 8.5p per share.
Eamonn Flanagan, an analyst at Shore Capital, said that the company had delivered "a robust underlying performance". Jonny Urwin, at UBS, agreed: "Hiscox is doing all the right things in a tough market."
Hiscox said that the UK's decision to leave the EU was "a structural rather than a strategic challenge". The company generates £260m of premiums in Europe (outside the UK) and employs 355 people there.
The insurer is planning to set up a new subsidiary somewhere in the EU to use as a base for its continental business. Mr Masojada said a decision on the location would be made in the first quarter of next year, and the company would take another six to 12 months to set up the business.
He added that Brexit could be an opportunity to win new business in Europe.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); GHANA (68%); GERMANY (57%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               102 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: If May goes soft on Brexit there'll be a revolt; The PM seems to think, wrongly, that small changes to immigration control will be enough

BYLINE: Melanie Phillips

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 913 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: 'Brexit means Brexit" says the prime minister - but what, exactly does Brexit mean to her?'B For those who voted Brexit it means leaving the EU, resulting in the return of the UK's sovereign powers of government and restored control of Britain's borders.
Brexiteers were alarmed that Theresa May was a Remainer, albeit a tepid one, and initially took some comfort from her "Brexit is Brexit" declaration, which signalled that the vote to leave was inviolable. Yet that allowed much scope for mischief.
While unsustainable immigration levels are fuelled by global pressures, Britain can't control immigration policy while subject to the EU rule giving citizens of one member state the right to live and work in any other. The EU insists, however, there can be no access to the single market without accepting this free movement of people.
We can be pretty sure that the British and European establishment is bent on devising ways in which, while observing the letter of Leave, the UK retains the supposed economic benefits of EU membership while masking the continued hobbling of British sovereignty.
This anxiety has been heightened by Mrs May's repeated claim that the British people want to see "some controls" on movement of individuals from the EU to the www.UK.No, they most certainly do not. Those who voted Brexit want complete British control over immigration. "Some" controls means only "some" democracy. That means no democracy.
Such concerns were further heightened by a proposal the EU is reportedly considering - a seven-year brake on free movement. The response from leading Brexiteers has been predictably savage. Just as you can't have "some" democracy, you can't have a mere seven-year holiday from embedded foreign control and call that the return of sovereign national government.
These and other similarly Jesuitical formulations to square the migration/ single market circle all amount to democracy-lite: a hollow façade of independence without power.
Remainers say there's no alternative if Britain is to stay within the single market. The red line for Brexit voters, however, is not the single market. It is being able to rule ourselves and make our own policies.
Remainers start from the assumption that Britain has a poor hand to play in negotiations with the EU. On the contrary, its member states need us more than we need them. They sell more to us than we do to them. Vindictive tariff wars would hit their own car makers, farmers and winemakers. They are terrified of the competition for trade that an independent Britain will pose.
So it's excellent that Liam Fox, the international trade secretary, is already lining up trade deals with Australia, New Zealand and the US. Such enthusiasm abroad will strengthen Britain's already strong hand in the EU negotiations.
A strong hand requires confidence.Yet Remainers have no confidence in their country. The IMF, which previously warned Brexit could devastate the British economy, now predicts UK growth next year will be stronger than in Germany or France. Regardless of this, Remainers still insist that Brexit is already proving an economic disaster. They are still disdaining Brexit voters as being too stupid to have understood the issues.
They simply find it impossible to accept there can be any reasonable argument against the liberal internationalist view of the world. Crucially, they can't acknowledge that the democratic argument is of overwhelming importance to Brexiteers: Remainers don't rate democracy as that important. They therefore can't grasp that the referendum wasn't just an argument over narrow self-interest.
Despite the inescapable uncertainties arising from the unprecedented nature of Britain's decision to leave the EU, both sides have been more deeply and passionately engaged in this than in any other issue in living memory. It goes to the heart of their view of themselves in the world: the nature of the collective project with which they identify and what that says about their personal values.
Remainers think of themselves as European rather than British. They tend to be emphatic in their belief in British powerlessness and vituperative in their denunciations of Brexiteers as bigoted and ignorant.
Those who voted Leave have a dee p attachment to Britain, whose history and culture defines their political identity, and a passionate desire to restore its independence as a nation over whose sovereign laws the people have their democratic say.
Does Mrs May really understand the significance of this great revolt against an entire political establishment? What she actually thinks is still shrouded in ambiguity.
We don't know whether she will keep faith with those who voted Brexit or seek somehow to undermine it.
If she doesn't show absolute confidence that Britain can go it alone, even outside the single market, she will undermine Britain's negotiating position. However bullish Messrs Davis and Fox may be in attempting to negotiate Brexit terms and trade deals, they will be cut off at the knees if Mrs May suggests weakness though her willingness to compromise on Brexit's red lines. She has already done so. She must stop.
If she fails to respect the passionate desire for self-government expressed by more than 17 million citizens, she will not only damage British interests and harm her own reputation. She may also end up destroying the Conservative party she now so unexpectedly leads.
She needs to show  ;  ;  utter confidence that  ;  ;  Britain can go it alone ;


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (70%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               103 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 1:03 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Infrastructure spending already down before Brexit vote, poll says; Six out of 10 civil engineering sub-sectors reported falling workloads in the three months to the end of June

BYLINE: Katie Allen

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 677 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's infrastructure spending boom was already fizzling out before the Brexit vote, according to a survey of civil engineering firms that shows a slowdown in activity and order books leading up to the referendum.
In the latest evidence that the referendum has hit business confidence and investment plans, there was also a drop in sentiment and hiring expectations among the companies that build and maintain infrastructure such as roads, railways and energy supply.
 Related:  Pound hits 31-year low after disappointing service sector data
A poll by the Civil Engineering Contractors Association showed six out of 10 sub-sectors reported falling workloads in the three months to the end of June compared with the same period a year earlier. From the 101 companies surveyed, a net balance of just 2% said workloads had risen in the latest quarter, a sharp drop from 20% in the previous quarter - and the weakest result for three years.
CECA's chief executive, Alasdair Reisner, said the recovery in infrastructure activity appeared to have been cut short. He said: "Right now we are supposed to be going hell for leather on infrastructure. There is a substantial programme of private and public investment that was supported by government... we thought that from here on in we were going to see speeding up of activity.
"These results spell real trouble for the UK economy, and should act as a major warning sign to policymakers. We know that infrastructure investment is a driver of economic growth. Given the recent disappointing economic forecasts following the Brexit vote, our figures show that the market is slowing just as the country needs it to speed up."
The downbeat poll results - 85% of which were collected after the referendum result was confirmed on 24 June - echo the cautious tone among manufacturers in a survey by business group CBI published on Monday. That showed optimism had slumped to its lowest level since the depths of the global recession.
The first official estimates of how the economy fared in the run-up to the referendum are released on Wednesday. Figures on second-quarter GDP from the Office for National Statistics are expected to show growth held steady at a relatively muted 0.4%, according to a poll of economists by news service Reuters.
Reisner said that for his sector, the biggest threat from a drop in confidence was to privately funded infrastructure projects. "I don't think it will be the public sector works where the challenge is. The issue will be the private sector taking another view and asking if the market is there or not and wondering what will happen to the wider economy," he said.
CECA, whose 300 members account for about three-quarters of UK civil engineering activity, said there had also been a slowdown in orders. The net balance of surveyed firms reporting an improvement in order books dropped to 9% in the second quarter, down from 13% in the first quarter and the lowest reading since the end of 2013.
Reisner said a slowdown in infrastructure spending and activity would impact the economy in several ways. There was a potential blow to hopes of rebalancing growth in the UK if building projects in the north of England were hit, he said. There were also ramifications for the UK's overall economic growth and for jobs. 
                   Construction hit hardest in last downturn                   
He said the lesson of the last recession, which hit the construction industry harder than any other sector of the UK economy, was that continuing to spend on infrastructure could safeguard jobs. "Unless the government kicks on to get spades in the ground, we will be looking at a dramatic slowdown in growth, which is bad news for the 200,000 people who work in our sector, and bad news for the economy as a whole," he said.
The lobby group does not expect any near-term drop in employment given most civil engineering firms would likely want to hold on to experienced workers amid an ongoing skills shortage. Employment expectations for the next twelve months were the weakest for more than three years.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               104 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Jeremy Hunt has saved his own skin but let the NHS sink; The funding crunch is disastrous and the Brexit windfall was a lie. The truth is that we need to pay more for Britain's health service - or get less

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1088 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: How did Jeremy Hunt keep his job ? On reshuffle day the BBC reported he was gone, but after an exceptionally long session inside No 10 he saved his skin, emerging with that grin and a tweet saying he was "thrilled". Junior doctors were less than thrilled, since Hunt's survival signals no turning back on the dispute he has caused. Full speed ahead to impose a contract, threatening yet more strife.
 Related:  Jeremy Hunt narrowly survived the cabinet reshuffle - so what now? | Denis Campbell
But here's the great question: did Hunt tell Theresa May the truth about the NHS? That was the time to warn the new prime minister of just how critical the financial crunch is, building into imminent crisis. He needed to report to her what all the leading health economists say, what Whitehall's most senior civil servants say and what NHS managers are warning: nine out 10 trusts have deficits from which they can't escape, with missed cancer waiting times up 56% and no chance of restoring the four-hour A&E waiting time limit. The Department of Health to all intents and purposes busted its budget last year, an extraordinary event only redeemed through one-off wheezes that can't be repeated.
                     Simon Stevens, head of NHS England, warns that capital funds needed for "overcrowded and clapped-out buildings in need of a makeover if not a bulldozer" are being diverted to fire-fight day-to-day treatment. His £1.8bn transformation and sustainability money - supposed to be invested in joining up NHS and social care and creating larger conglomerations of care - is being burned up on basic services. That £10bn promised at the general election? Nigel Edwards of the Nuffield Trust says much was Treasury sleight of hand, stolen from other parts of the NHS, and less than half was new money.
Did Hunt tell her? He has never confronted NHS underfunding, preferring to apply his own screws by naming and shaming inadequate care. By talking up the scandal in Mid Staffs he encouraged the Care Quality Commission to set higher nursing and doctor numbers per ward, but that added to the financial pressure he never mentions. He never took up the cudgels over public health and social care cuts in local councils needlessly filling up hospital beds with the frail.
The word is he instead beamed from ear to ear and told May the NHS was safe in his hands, he could fix it, knock sense into the moaners and shroud wavers, just leave it to him. If he failed to warn her that the Treasury must find big sums very soon, she may not thank him for pretending there are magic solutions.
Nearing its 70th birthday, the NHS has the lowest funding increase ever, with worse to come in the next two years. And Brexit voters will be expecting that fantastical £350m a week NHS windfall.
To prove to the Treasury that NHS heads are "getting a grip", all trusts have been sent a threatening " reset " letter where fines will be imposed on those in debt - a curious perversity. Of the many in deficit, a handful were chosen for "special measures" to frighten the rest. The letter warns that trusts will also lose 30% of promised funds if they fail A&E, cancer and operation waiting times, with a cap on hiring staff or temps. Cut debts and improve quality - or else.
 Related:  NHS bosses launch 'reset' plan to tackle £2.45bn deficit
Or else what? All the trusts I've spoken to regard this threat as showboating for the Treasury, a bit of play-acting, because nobody - including the NHS England and NHS Improvement heads - can think the deficits will be wrung out, or the old waiting targets resumed. Savings are being made by sharing HR and back offices, buying equipment in bulk and shutting down Andrew Lansley's wasteful plethora of CCGs, commissioners still wasting money on competitive tendering.
But the big cost is people - and more staff are urgently needed. Failing to train enough, still scouring the globe for nurses and doctors, after Brexit the fear is that many here already may depart. Stevens publicly begs for "early reassurance to international NHS employees about their continued welcome in this country", but May still refuses.
Take one finance director of a major teaching hospital, anonymous because everyone feels intimidated by this "reset" letter. "NHS funding is back to the year 2000 as a share of GDP, so I say to my consultants, think back to how it was then. What do we do now we didn't do then?" They say back then, before Labour's investment, "we had 18-month waits, many fewer nurses and doctors, lower pay, winter crises, no Nice and CQC minimum standards".
Consider what is expected now on the same funding share, such as state-of-the-art drugs costing up to £100,000 a year per patient. There used to be leeway for cutting corners, but in all hospitals the chief executive must report to the board every month that the correct number of nurses and doctors have staffed every shift. This finance director challenges the government, "Come clean, be honest. You tell us what we should ration."
So how does the NHS burst at the seams? Chorley hospital in Lancashire abruptly shut its emergency department - downgrading it to urgent care for safety - because it could only fill five of its 14 middle-grade doctor posts. The only applicants were unregistered or struck-off doctors. This was not done to save money: ambulances cost as much to ferry serious cases to Preston hospital, which is already under pressure. What's more, Chorley's walk-in patients numbers are still rising fast due to 18 local GP vacancies.
Dewsbury hospital in Yorkshire has just done likewise, with many others in similar staffing straits. But those near to downgrading unsafe emergency units fear suffering Chorley's fate, where managers are under savage personal attack. The public and local MPs accuse them of a closure plot, when government failure to fund the NHS or train enough clinicians should take the flak.
"Reset" will be nothing of the kind and NHS England knows it, despite rattling sabres at trusts and intimidating managers. Most trusts have signed up to "control totals" pledging deficit reductions they know for certain they can never achieve. There is safety in numbers: they know they are a high-calibre cadre doing an impossible job: they can't all be put into "special measures", with no army of ultra super-managers to replace them. They will go on trying to do the impossible. What they all say is the public must be presented with the resoundingly obvious truth: pay more or get less from the NHS, that is the choice.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ENGLAND (69%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               105 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Juncker: No special deal after Brexit

BYLINE: Henry Zeffman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 277 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain will have to accept EU rules including free movement "without exception or nuance" if it wants to retain full access to the single market, Jean-Claude Juncker has said.
The European Commission president's comments are a setback to hopes that Britain might be able to retain free trade with EU member states while imposing some restrictions on European immigration.
He said that his position remained the same as the day after the Brexit vote: "No access to the internal market if you do not accept the rules - without exception or nuance - that make up the internal market system."
They echo comments by President Hollande of France after talks with Theresa May last week that Britain has a choice: "To remain in the single market and then assume the free movement that goes with it" or to "have another status".
Mr Juncker denied that he was taking a harsh stance. "It's not a hard line, it's common sense. It reflects the philosophy of the European project itself," he told French television.
He conceded that Theresa May's government can decide when to begin the formal process of pulling out of the EU. "I would have liked the UK to present us with its resignation letter as soon as possible, because I would have expected that the British, especially those who wanted to leave the EU, would have prepared themselves for this possibility," he said. "Well, that wasn't the case."
The two-year process of exiting the European Union will begin when the UK government notifies the European Council of its intention to leave under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. Mrs May has said that it will not happen this year, as the government agrees its negotiating position.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               106 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Juncker rows back on claim Britain must start Brexit immediately

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 442 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Matthew Holehouse Brussels THERE is no "deadline" for Britain to activate Article 50, Jean-Claude Juncker said yesterday, as he rowed back from earlier demands for the UK to trigger its European Union exit process immediately.
"The British government needs several months to finetune its position," the president of the European Commission told French television. "I would have preferred [that] the UK presents us its letter of resignation, so to speak, as soon as possible, as I had thought that the British, especially those who wanted to leave the EU, would have prepared for this possibility," Juncker said.
Theresa May has said Britain will take its time to prepare for the marathon talks, and said that the process will not begin before 2017.
Mr Juncker said on June 27 - before Mrs May's appointment - that Britain had just two weeks to begin the process.
"If someone from the Remain camp becomes British PM, it can be done two weeks after his appointment," he said.
"If the next British PM is from the Leave campaign, it should be done the day after his appointment."
Mr Juncker said there would be no opt-outs whatsoever for Britain on free movement in exchange for single market access. "There will be no access to the internal market for those who do not accept the rules - without exception or nuance - that make up the very nature of the internal market system," he said.
Asked about Boris Johnson's comparison of the EU's aims for unifying Europe to those of Adolf Hitler, Mr Juncker said he was looking forward to meeting Mr Johnson. "He may notice the difference between Hitler and I is more than a matter of nuance," he said.
It came as Ms May travelled to Belfast to hold talks with First Minister Arlene Foster and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness, to discuss delivering stability in Northern Ireland in the wake of the EU referendum.
Speaking after the visit, she said the government would seek to reach a Brexit deal with Brussels which was "in the best interests of the whole of the United Kingdom".
Ms May also promised to work for a "practical solution" to the future of the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic. She said: "If you look ahead, what is going to happen when the UK leaves the EU is that of course Northern Ireland will have a border with the Republic of Ireland, which will remain a member of the EU.
"But we've had a common travel area between the UK and the Republic of Ireland many years before either country was a member of the EU. Nobody wants to return to the borders of the past. What we do want to do is to find a way through this that is going to work and deliver a practical solution for everybody."


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRELAND (92%); BELGIUM (90%); FRANCE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               107 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Like independence, Brexit is not a cure-all; The emotional impulse to leave the European Union is a response to Britain's perceived international irrelevance

BYLINE: Alex Massie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1072 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: You can fly but you cannot hide from Brexit. It follows you even unto the ends of the earth. I'd been in Angola for precisely five minutes before a genial hustler, ascertaining I was from the United Kingdom, wanted to know what Brexit meant for the future of the UK.
"I'm afraid no one knows. It remains far too soon to say," I told him, failing to remember that, once started, this kind of conversation becomes disagreeably hard to end.
Sometimes it is just easier to pay.
But then, as Kipling noted, "We've proved it again and again, that if once you have paid him the Danegeld, You never get rid of the Dane." This, it is becoming clear, is the problem with Brexit too. By voting Leave, the British people have paid the Dane, only to discover that he is coming back for more. Just leaving the EU isn't enough for the Brexiteers, we must also make sure we do not join the European Economic Area either. All ties must be severed, including access to and membership of the European single market.
This is a remarkable development. For years, you will remember, Eurosceptics' problem with the single market was that it did not go far enough. It had not been completed and it was past time that the market in goods be matched by a true market in services. Nevertheless, imperfect though it might be, the single market was A Good Thing. The only thing, in fact, that Britain really liked about the EU.
Now we are told that even the good things are actually a Bad Thing and we should consider leaving the single market a blessing. Already you can hear rumblings of discontent from embittered, monomaniacal backbench Tories. Anything less than a "hard Brexit" is unacceptable.
A Norway-style arrangement in which Britain would maintain access to the single market and be given an "emergency brake" to be applied to the free movement of people is, I suspect, the kind of arrangement a majority of Britons would accept. That is why, as far as the Brexiteer Ultras are concerned, this dangerous moderation must be strangled in its crib. It might work, you understand, and that would be a kind of defeat.
As an emotional impulse, Brexit is a response to Britain's perceived international irrelevance. There is something atavistic about it, a plangent longing for an older, grander, world in which SS Britannia will once again sail the world's oceans inspiring some measure of awe, and even sometimes admiration, from all who encounter her.
There is something ridiculous about this but the power of an imagined, perfect future should not be discounted. And there is a paradox too: Britain's belated entry into the European Community was itself a response to the fading embers of Empire. History made the old map obsolete; something new was needed. But Britain, and especially England, was never a wholehearted participant in the new arrangements. The pooling of sovereignty - in exchange for more vigorous economic growth - always stuck in many a craw. Britain put up with the EU but never loved it.
Europe was a kind of comfortable trap. Good enough, perhaps, for lesser countries but Britain, and especially England, is not a lesser country. For the more highfalutin Brexiteer, this was all you needed to know. It made me think of how in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, John le Carré's great novel of British decline, Bill Haydon, the Soviet mole inside the Circus, explains that "for a while" after the war, "he had remained content with Britain's part in the world, till gradually it dawned on him how trivial this was". His decision to spy for the Russians was "an aesthetic judgment as much as anything" though also "partly a moral one, of course".
Brexit is an aesthetic judgment too and, for some, a moral one. At its most intellectual, it is a project to reclaim national relevance and make Britain great again. It is, in its way, a response to the fear of a perceived irrelevance. Europe, you see, became the past very quickly; the new opportunities open to Britain are global. Perhaps the Brexiteers are right. That possibility cannot be discounted entirely. It is certainly in everyone's interests that these optimistic assessments prove grounded in something more than just wishful thinking.
But distance, even temporary distance, allows for greater perspective too. And viewed from the far ends of the world, Brexit looks less like the reclamation of national confidence than it resembles a pinched and reactionary howl of despair. Considered from far away, the appointment of Boris Johnson as foreign secretary seems less of a laugh. Even a Foreign and Commonwealth Office denuded of its European responsibilities deserved better than this. It isn't a Churchillian victory salute; it's quite the opposite digital message.
And there is still no plan. Theresa May seems as though she would like to salvage something but the majority of her party's supporters, and a chunky minority of her parliamentary colleagues, chose to scuttle the ship and see no need to encumber themselves with any baggage, the better to survive the shipwreck.
There is a purity here, you see, that cannot be polluted by compromise. If this seems familiar in Scotland it's because it damn well should be familiar. Certainty is the political currency of our time. Upsides are all around and unicorns are more commonly found than any downside. The toast always lands jam-side up. So - and brace yourself for some astonishment - there was Nicola Sturgeon arguing yesterday that Brexit may make Scottish independence even more necessary than ever. I know, what were the chances of that? Of course, the better future offered by independence is, as far as Ms Sturgeon is concerned, just as unfalsifiable as the better future Brexit offers Britain is unfalsifiable for, say, Daniel Hannan or Iain Duncan Smith. There are no conceivable circumstances in which these people could admit the alternative might be true. They can always have their cake and eat it and, if they are lucky, expect someone else to pay for it.
Independence, like Brexit, is a universal solvent, dissolving all difficulties. In like fashion, Brexit and independence are hammers in search of nails to batter. Such is the temper of our times, an age of utter certainty from which you might wish to hide but in which there is no place of secret safety. It's good to be back, I guess.
Brexiteer Ultras want dangerous moderation strangled in its crib
The political currency of our time is certainty without compromise
Graphic
Colin Firth, left, plays Bill Haydon in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, which highlights Britain's decline


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORWAY (78%); EUROPE (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               108 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May rules out Irish 'borders of the past'; Brexit aftermath

BYLINE: George Parker, Political Editor

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has promised that Brexit will not lead to a restoration of "the borders of the past" in Ireland, but her visit yesterday to Belfast left more questions than answers about the future of the north-south frontier.
The prime minister has yet to come up with an answer as to how the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland can be as porous as it is today, once it becomes an external EU frontier.
Mrs May will today meet Enda Kenny, Ireland's prime minister, to discuss how free movement of people and goods might be maintained after the UK leaves the EU, with Mr Kenny insisting there can be no return to a "hard border".
Mrs May said: "What we want to do is find a way through this that is going to work and deliver a practical solution for everybody."
Both Mrs May and her ministers repeat the formula about not returning to "the borders of the past", a deliberately vague terminology that leaves the way open for some kind of checks.
Many people in Northern Ireland associate the phrase with the Troubles: army checkpoints, barbed wire and country lanes sealed off. Nobody in London or Dublin envisages a return to those measures.
But Mrs May has yet to explain how the UK can "take control" of its borders - a theme of the Leave campaign ahead of the referendum - if it leaves a new external frontier with the EU wide open with no passport checks.
Nor has she explained how - if the UK leaves the EU customs union - she can prevent smuggling by people wishing to avoid new tariffs and administrative checks if there are no customs posts on the border. Northern Ireland voted by 56 per cent to 44 per cent to remain and Martin McGuinness, Sinn Féin deputy first minister, said after meeting Mrs May there was "no good news whatsoever in Brexit for anybody in the north".
Arlene Foster, the first minister, revealed after the meeting that at least one option appeared to be off the table: leaving the north-south border open, but introducing internal controls between Northern Ireland and Great Britain. "There must be no internal borders within the UK," Ms Foster said.
Mrs May, who has pledged to defend the union, would not relish the idea of introducing checks to the passports of Northern Ireland residents when they travel to the mainland.
Mrs May appeared to suggest that free movement of people across the border would continue : "We had a common travel area between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland many years before either country was a member of the European Union," she said.
Peter Mandelson, former Northern Ireland secretary, said it was vital to maintain free movement and to keep the border open. Both are seen as important aspects of the peace process.
But he failed to see how, if the UK left the EU customs union, there could continue to be unimpeded free trade in goods across the border.
That point was also made in the Financial Times last month by Jonathan Powell , Northern Ireland negotiator from 1997 to 2007, who said a UK exit from the customs union would have serious consequences.
"You could not possibly have goods flowing backwards and forwards across the 499km border with Ireland unchecked, or else there would be a gaping backdoor to the EU through the province," he wrote.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); IE Ireland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               109 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Post-Brexit EU unsustainable in its present form - S&P

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 346 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Colm Kelpie THE European Union, as it's currently constructed, is unsustainable in its current form, a global ratings agency has warned.
Standard & Poor's said the Brexit referendum result "dramatically raised" the level of uncertainty about the future not only of the UK, but of the EU itself.
In a new report, the ratings agency suggested that the solution is in a realignment of the sharing of the various dimensions of sovereignty into a more "natural, coherent and consistent" form.
"The problem is this: the EU, as it's currently constructed and operates, doesn't embody a coherent 'pooling' of the various dimensions of nation-state sovereignty, and therefore it's unsustainable in its current form," said S&P global chief economist Paul Sheard.
"The EU's leaders - and no doubt many of its citizens - widely accept this."
The ratings agency proposed two visions for its future. The new post-Brexit EU must either be a looser form of political and economic federation, in which member states take back some sovereignty, or a stronger form, in which aspects of sovereignty that aren't currently shared are ceded to EU level, S&P said.
"The time has come for Europe to 'think big' and to convene a 'constitutional convention'," Mr Sheard said. He said it should seek input "from a wide range of stakeholders and social partners, including opposition parties, business groups, trade unions, academics, thinktanks, and representatives of civil society (nonprofits and nongovernmental organisations), with a view to coming up with one or more recommendations for the future state of Europe and the outline of treaty changes necessary to bring it about".
If this were to occur, S&P suggested the UK may want to delay triggering Article 50, and take part in the convention.
"The Brexit vote will have far-reaching consequences for the future of the UK economy, society, and polity. But it's also a wake-up call to the rest of the EU. One can only hope that this wake-up call will be answered - and answered in a way that calls forth an abundance of clear-mindedness and states-manship."


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               110 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ryanair responds to Brexit by shifting growth strategy to Europe; Airline could cut back on flights between Ireland and London

BYLINE: Barry O'Halloran

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 498 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Ryanair could cut back on flights between Ireland and London as it bids to combat the uncertainty created by the the UK's Brexit vote.
The airline said yesterday that it was planning to cut capacity and frequency on routes out of London Stansted this winter in an immediate step towards moving growth from the UK to Europe.
Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said that it was considering all London Stansted routes, including those from this country, before making a final decision on where to scale back.
"We are going through them at the moment and we have not finalised cuts to any routes," he said. Mr Sorahan added that the airline would not axe any of the services but would cut back on the actual number of flights.
Ryanair flies between Stansted and six Irish airports, Cork, Derry, Dublin, Kerry, Knock and Shannon. Demand for flights between Ireland and London is strong. Almost 4.5 million people travelled between the two last year, making it Europe's busiest route.
Response 
According to Mr Sorahan, the move to cut back on Stansted is partly a response to the fall in sterling's value against the euro that followed last month's Brexit vote.  
Ryanair reports in euro, but about 28 per cent of its revenues are in sterling. Its chief finance officer said a one pence decline in the pound cuts EUR 8 million off its after-tax profit.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said that Ryanair was already significantly ahead of its traffic growth targets at Stansted, where passenger numbers have grown to 19 million a-year from 13 million two years ago.
"In the near term we expect that Brexit uncertainty will lead to weaker sterling, slower growth in the UK and EU economies and downward pressure on fares until the end of 2017 at least, " Mr O'Leary said.
Shares in Ryanair surged by 6. 7 per cent to close at EUR 11.63 after the airline said that it was sticking with forecasts that profits for the current financial year, which ends next March, would increase 12 per cent to between EUR 1.375 billion and EUR 1.425 billion.
Revenue 
Ryanair reported that profits rose 4 per cent to EUR 256 million in the three months to the end of June from EUR 245 million during the same period last year.  
Revenue for the period, the first quarter of its financial year, grew 2 per cent on the same three months in 2015 to EUR 1.69 billion from EUR 1.65 billion. Earnings per share increased 12 per cent to 20.01 cent.
It carried 31.2 million passengers during its first quarter, 11 per cent more than during that period last year. Mr O'Leary said that bookings for the current quarter, which ends on September 30th, were 1 per cent ahead of where they were this time last year, but customers were paying 6 per cent less for seats.
The absence of Easter from the first quarter, terror attacks and repeated air traffic control strikes cut fares by 10 per cent to an average of EUR 39.92.
The airline also said it expected ticket prices to fall by 8 per cent through the first half of its financial year.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%); IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               111 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ryanair sticks with profit guidance despite Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 379 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Donal O'Donovan RYANAIR said it is sticking with official guidance for record breaking-profits this year despite challenges including the rising terror threat in Europe and the fallout from the Brexit vote.
The Irish airline said it is on course to carry 117 million passengers in the 12 months to the end of next March, 10pc up on last year and ahead of previous guidance.
Earlier the company reported net profits in the three months to the end of June up 4pc to (EURO)256m. An 11pc jump in passenger numbers in the period helped offset a 10pc decline in ticket prices, according to a company.
The airline's chief financial officer, Neil Sorohan, said yesterday that in a "challenging market" the company has been actively cutting prices to keep passengers travelling.
"Ryanair's policy is to be load active yield passive, meaning that we always hit the passenger number and the fare is whatever the fare is going to be," he said.
So far, terror threats in Europe and the impact of a serious of air traffic controller strikes in France has not dampened demand for travel, he said.
He stood by full-year guidance, but admitted risks to the downside may see that change later in the year. Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary campaigned heavily for the UK to remain within the EU ahead of last June's Brexit referendum.
In the wake of the 'leave' vote Ryanair has indicated it will focus resources away from the UK market over time.
Britain is a major market for the airline, accounting for about a quarter of all sales.
In a trading update yesterday, the company said it was too soon to predict the full impact from the vote, which will depend on the regulator position for airlines flying between the UK and the remaining European Union members. However, the airline already plans some changes.
"In the meantime, we will pivot our growth away from UK airports and focus more on growing at our EU airports over the next two years.
"This winter we will cut capacity and frequency on many London Stansted routes (although no routes will close) where we are already significantly ahead of our multi-year traffic growth targets," the company said.
Its idea is to shift capacity and growth to markets including Poland, Romania, Lithuania and the Czech Republic as well as Italy and Germany.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); ITALY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (78%); LITHUANIA (78%); CZECH REPUBLIC (54%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               112 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ryanair warns it is ready to launch a price war; Airlines: Brexit fallout

BYLINE: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 689 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Ryanair yesterday signalled its willingness to take on rivals in a price war, even as the low-cost airline warned of the "downside" risks from the UK's Brexit vote and laid out plans to cut back in the UK.
Neil Sorahan , chief financial officer of Europe's biggest low-cost airline by revenues, dismissed the idea that the group should cut back on expansion and signalled the company's willingness to keep aircraft full even at much lower fares.
The comments could signal trouble for rivals such as easyJet, the UK-based low-cost carrier, Germany's Lufthansa and International Airlines Group, which all have higher cost bases than Ryanair, which is based in Dublin. Ryanair projected that its average fares, which were down 10 per cent year-on-year in the April to June quarter, would fall a further 6 per cent in the current quarter.
Mr Sorahan was speaking as Ryanair announced post-tax profits for April to June, the first quarter of its financial year, in line with most analysts' expectations at EUR256m. The figure, 4 per cent up on the same quarter last year, reflected the effects of terrorist incidents and air traffic control disruptions during the quarter. Revenues rose 2 per cent to EUR1.69bn.
Ryanair's figures follow warnings last week from both easyJet, its UK-based low-cost rival, and from Germany's Lufthansa about the impact of the Brexit uncertainty, recent terrorist attacks and severe air traffic disruption on profitability.
Ryanair maintained its forecast for post-tax profits for the year to March 2017 to rise around 12 per cent to a range of EUR1.37bn to EUR1.42bn, although it warned of "significant risks to the downside".
"If you have the lowest costs and a pretty strong balance sheet, like we do, it's pretty compelling," Mr Sorahan said of the arguments for continuing to seek growth.
He pointed out that in 2005, the last time Ryanair significantly expanded its fleet, the company had "stimulated the market" with fares as low as EUR1 to bring passengers into its then-network, chiefly between secondary airports.
"Now we're in so many primary airports, we're getting loads of opportunities to grow, so it's easier to stimulate the market and convince people they want to travel," he said.
Ryanair's shares closed 6.3 per cent up at EUR11.59 in Dublin yesterday. The company underlined its determination to take market share when it announced as part of the results that it expected full-year passenger traffic of 117m, 10 per cent up on the last financial year. The figure is 1m higher than the last announced projection.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive, said Ryanair would open 133 new routes for the winter 2016 timetable. Nevertheless, he sounded far less positive about the UK, where Ryanair has its biggest single base at London Stansted.
Mr O'Leary predicted a "considerable period of political and economic uncertainty in both the UK and the EU" in the aftermath of the Brexit vote.
"This uncertainty will be damaging to economic growth and consumer confidence," he said.
The company would focus its growth efforts on other parts of Europe in light of the Brexit vote, he added.
"We will pivot our growth away from UK airports and focus more on growing at our EU airports over the next two years," Mr O'Leary said. "This winter we will cut capacity and frequency on many London Stansted routes, although no routes will close."
In the longer term, however, there might be opportunities for the airline if UK-registered competitors were no longer able to operate intra-EU routes or had to sell stakes in EU-based airlines, Mr O'Leary added.
EasyJet operates a significant number of flights between other EU member states. International Airlines Group, the parent of British Airways, owns Spain's Iberia and Vueling and Ireland's Aer Lingus.
The average fare for the quarter was EUR39.92. Unit costs fell 9 per cent including the effects of falling fuel prices and 4 per cent excluding fuel.
Ryanair increased the number of passengers it carried during the quarter by 11 per cent to 31.2m.
Thanks to the effect of share buybacks, earnings per share rose 12 per cent - faster than net profits - to EUR20.01.
See Lex


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               113 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Shopping mall developer plays down Brexit effect

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 89 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Shopping mall developer plays down Brexit effect One of Britain's biggest shopping centre developers has said it has been "reassured" by the level of its leasing and investment activity since Britain's vote to leave the European Union, but reported a sharp decline in the value of its British portfolio. Hammerson, the FTSE 100 property company whose portfolio includes the Bullring in Birmingham, said that £51million had been wiped off the value of its British shopping centres and retail parks in the six months to the end of June.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               114 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Shopping mall developer plays down Brexit effect

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 80 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: One of Britain's biggest shopping centre developers has said it has been "reassured" by the level of its leasing and investment activity since Britain's vote to leave the European Union, but reported a sharp decline in the value of its British portfolio. Hammerson, the FTSE 100 property company whose portfolio includes the Bullring in Birmingham, said that £51million had been wiped off the value of its British shopping centres and retail parks in the six months to the end of June.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               115 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Sturgeon: we can be a safe port in post-Brexit storm

BYLINE: Lindsay McIntosh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Nicola Sturgeon sought yesterday to present Scottish independence as the safe, stable alternative to a post-Brexit UK in a clear indication of how she will fight a second referendum.
The first minister is keenly aware that many Scots voted No in 2014 for fear of the uncertainty surrounding the Yes campaign's case for separation.
In a keynote speech in Edinburgh she made clear that if she calls a re-run she will argue that it is remaining in the UK that carries the most uncertainty.
She said: "I don't pretend that independence would be straightforward. It would bring its own challenges, as well as many opportunities.
"But consider this - the UK that we voted to stay part of in 2014, a UK within the EU, is fundamentally changing. "The outlook for the UK is uncertainty, upheaval and unpredictability. In these circumstances it may well be that the option that offers us the greatest certainty, stability and the maximum control over our own destiny is independence."
She warned of the consequences of the being outside the EU. "I genuinely fear that a UK government outside of the single market will seek economic competitiveness through deregulation and a race to the bottom. That would be devastating for the workers' rights and protections that we have all come to take for granted," she said.
The SNP leader also warned Theresa May that she would push for the breakup of Britain if the prime minister did not take her views into account when negotiating Brexit. Setting out her demands in five areas - democracy, economic prosperity, social protection, solidarity and influence - she challenged the UK government to prove that it valued Scotland within the Union. She said: "If we can read anything from the early signs, whe-ther from government appointments or initial pronouncements, it is that the UK is heading towards a hard rather than a soft Brexit - a future outside the single market, with only limited access, and significant restrictions on free movement.
"Scotland didn't choose to be in this situation and our vital interests are at stake, with potential consequences that will affect all of us, so I have a duty to do all that I can to protect those interests.
"We can seek to find, or create, a solution that enables Scotland's distinctive voice to be heard and our interests to be protected within the UK. Or we can consider again the option of independence." Speaking at Our Dynamic Earth in an event organised by the Institute for Public Policy Research, Ms Sturgeon also launched a stinging attack on the conduct of Leave campaigners and some UK politicians. She said they had failed to prepare for the outcome of Brexit in "one of the most shameful abdications of responsibility in modern political history".
Responding to her address, Lewis Macdonald, Scottish Labour's Europe spokesman, said: "People in Scotland voted to remain in both the UK and the EU, and everything should be done to deliver on that mandate. Labour is the only party that supports delivering what the people of Scotland voted for.
"We have given the first minister our backing to find a deal that meets the needs of the people of Scotland and we welcomed the prime minister's commitment to find common agreement amongst the four nations of the UK.
"It is essential that the leaders of all the devolved administrations and the UK government work together in advance of any negotiations with the EU. All sides must put posturing to one side for the sake of the country and act in good faith.
"Any of our leaders deliberately placing obstacles in the way of an agreement that maintains our vital relationships with the rest of Britain and the rest of Europe would run counter to the express wishes of the people of Scotland."
Mr Macdonald added: "We want to strengthen workers' rights and human rights, and to support trade and jobs, both across the UK and Europe."
Graphic
The UK is heading for a hard landing with Brexit, according to Nicola Sturgeon


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); SCOTLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               116 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Three-state union may be the solution to Brexit

BYLINE: Fintan O'Toole

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 853 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: +Welcome to SCINI. There is no good name for the Atlantic archipelago we inhabit: "These Islands" seems to be about the best we can manage without causing offence to someone or other. But, as Theresa May was reminded on her visit to Belfast yesterday, the shape of These Islands is shifting. The people of three of the five parts (Scotland, Northern Ireland and Ireland) now see their relations with the rest of the world in one way, while those of the other two (England and Wales) see them very differently. 
The new division is, of course, created by Brexit, and it forces the three parts of These Islands that wish to remain in the EU to think radically about how they relate to each other. 
To think about a new union - of Scotland, Ireland and Northern Ireland: SCINI.
This is crazy talk, but sometimes history forces us all to think urgently about ideas that were previously the exclusive property of cranks. 
The idea of SCINI runs up again one of the basic principles of the international order since 1945 - that existing borders and states must be accepted as having arrived at their final point of evolution. It also disturbs the nationalist ideal that states are "natural" expressions of ancient nationhood. 
Human inventions 
But states are neither natural nor fixed. They are human inventions, imagined into existence, and subject to all the dark and light forces of history.  
These Islands are a prime example of this fluidity. At various points in our common history we have been parcelled up in many different ways. 
An English-dominated United Kingdom may be the one that looms largest in the current imagination, but there have been, on the archipelago, borders between the Roman empire and barbarians, multiple English kingdoms, Scandinavian colonies, Irish kingdoms that included large parts of Scotland, Irish colonies in Wales, Anglo-Norman lordships that stretched to France, and so on.
And shifts can happen quickly. In the upheavals of a century ago two entities that had never been previously envisaged or desired - a 26-county Ireland and a six-county Northern Ireland - emerged quite suddenly.
Most interestingly in the current context, the dominant part of These Islands, England, has (to its great credit) conceded that the political architecture of the archipelago is radically open-ended. It did this in the Belfast Agreement, which accepts that North's membership of the UK is contingent and voluntary. And it did the same for Scotland when David Cameron accepted that the results of the referendum on Scottish independence would be binding on the UK. 
With these concessions the UK itself became an avowedly contingent entity, subject to the wishes of democratic majorities in two of its constituent parts. This is enormously important because it means change can be peaceful and consensual - a privilege that history seldom offers. 
So the current political shape of These Islands carries an asterisk: terms and conditions apply. 
The most important of these conditions is consent. And for all May's admirable emollience, the question of consent is unavoidable and implacable. Leaving the European Union is not a detail of policy - it is a seismic and historic shift in political identity. The people of Scotland and Northern Ireland do not and will not consent to that shift. And the people of the Republic were not, of course, asked to consent to changes that affect them so profoundly. 
We know on this part of the archipelago what lack of consent to political structures looks like. We know how bad and bitter its consequences may be. Northern Protestants did not, on the whole, consent to Irish Independence - and that was enough to wreck the dream of an Irish Republic.
And Northern Catholics did not, on the whole, consent to being placed in a sectarian statelet with an inbuilt Protestant majority. These problems of consent have never gone away even though the Belfast Agreement made real progress in thinking about how to contain them.
Will lack of consent to being taken out of the EU have the same kind of power to reshape the identities of Scotland and Northern Ireland? That depends on how bad the fallout from Brexit gets. If it's very bad indeed, resistance to it could well become the defining question for Scotland, Northern Ireland and, by extension, for the Republic. That common interest is what would make the unthinkable not just thinkable but enormously attractive. 
Double identity
 SCINI may be the only long-term solution to Northern Ireland's problem of double identity - the "British" part of that identity has always been much more Scottish than English. It may also be Scotland's only way to stay in the EU. And it may be the Republic's only way to avoid the reimposition of an internal border on the island.  
SCINI would not, of course, be an old-fashioned unitary state. It would have to be accompanied by radical thinking about what it means to be a democracy in the 21st century, one that might even reconnect with the great Scottish traditions of republican thought that so profoundly influenced the United Irishmen. For that alone we need to think ourselves SCINI.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (94%); IRELAND (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); ENGLAND (92%); WALES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); FRANCE (53%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               117 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 5:49 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Tim Farron: Theresa May did nothing to prevent Brexit; Lib Dem leader says PM put personal ambition above country but could have made a big difference to remain campaign

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 999 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has been accused of making no effort during the EU referendum campaign despite being one of the few politicians who might have been able to prevent the vote for Brexit.
In an interview with the Guardian to mark a year as Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron attacked the prime minister, suggesting that she had put her personal ambitions above the needs of the country. 
"She was pro-remain, but I tell you what compared to her Jeremy Corbyn pulled a shift. She did nothing. And one of the reason we are in this mess, is that too many people who could have switched people's votes didn't put their head above the parapet," Farron said.
 Related:  Theresa May will soon have to decide which Brexit to take | Martin Kettle
Farron said that May, who was home secretary, was seen by remain campaigners as an authoritative figure who could have been persuasive on immigration.
"Theresa May could have made a very, very big difference and she chose not to. The Tories have stumbled into this mess because of a combination of incompetence, ideological obsession and people thinking of their own narrow careers rather than the country," he said. 
The Lib Dem leader also hit out at the tactics employed by George Osborne, arguing that the former chancellor's "illustrative budget" that appeared to threaten tax hikes and spending cuts in the wake of a Brexit vote was a tipping point.
Farron said that among leave voters in the north-west that he had spoken to since the referendum, "there was almost a unanimity of the thing that pushed them to leave, and it was the Osborne scary budget: it was the sense that I'm being bullied, by someone I don't like anyway".
 Related:  Theresa May to rule out return of border checks between UK and Ireland
Farron revealed that Liberal Democrat policy would now not only offer a referendum on the Brexit deal when it is hammered out, but also promise that on the ballot would be the option of "remaining in the EU".
But he insisted the position was not about disrespecting the outcome of the referendum.
"Any MP who talks about frustrating the will of the electorate by blocking Brexit in the House of Commons - that would be wrong... we shouldn't be sticking two fingers up at the people, that would be a disgrace," he said.
"Calling for an immediate second referendum because you don't like the result of the first, I can understand the temptation, [but] that is wrong."
But he argued while the 52% had voted clearly against something, they had not been given anything to vote for, pointing out that Britain's relationship with the EU could be modelled on a large number of possibilities "ranging from Norway, to North Korea, and all the points in between". 
Farron pointed out that it was not yet clear whether European countries would allow tariff free access to the single market alongside restrictions on immigration.
"I'd be surprised," he said, adding: "It would be a travesty if the British government imposed upon the United Kingdom a relationship with Europe they had not voted for ... So the deal should be put to the people and as part of that deal remaining in the EU should be on that ballot paper."
He called May an "interesting kettle of fish" after she appointed three Brexiters - Boris Johnson, David Davis and Liam Fox - to key roles involved in the EU negotiations. 
"The Brexit trio at Brexit Towers... I like to think, but I don't have the evidence, that she's appointed Fox, Johnson and Davis essentially saying - 'you guys have screwed this up, you sort it out, your problem'. And maybe she is setting them up to fail."
 Related:  Tim Farron looking seriously at new party of opposition
However, he warned about the divide in the country that had been exposed by the referendum, arguing that there was a "danger of metropolitan sneering... about the 52%".
Farron recently attended an event in Preston in the north-west in which most of the people who came were people who voted out. He said their anger was less directed at the "Westminster village" than the whole of the capital, with a feeling that "London doesn't get it".
He also highlighted "a sense that they were being lectured to by the self-satisfied and the self-appointed".
Trying to tell people that they had done the wrong thing by voting out was not the best way to tackle the issue, added Farron. "The point is that if it's only people in this city [London] slagging off the rest of England for damaging their future, don't expect to take anybody with you."
But he said accepting defeat in good grace did not mean "you roll over and give up", saying he wanted to lead the campaign to keep Britain inside the EU.
"The referendum result is heartbreaking to me and immensely damaging to Britain but it gives enormous clarity as to what the purpose of the Liberal Democrats is," he said. 
He admitted it was frustrating being the leader of a party of just eight MPs, when the Lib Dems used to have well over 50 Westminster politicians. Asked about being jeered in the House of Commons and once being described as "irritating" by the speaker, John Bercow, Farron said "I don't give a monkeys".
But he said the referendum result meant "all bets are off" for his party, pointing out what happened to Labour in Scotland when it was wiped out by the SNP in the wake of another referendum result.
Labour's crisis was "tragic for British politics", he added, saying he didn't want to be a "homewrecker" but insisting his "door was open". 
"Britain desperately needs a functioning, progressive, economically credible, internationalist party that believes passionately about social justice as well. We can be the gathering place for that," said Farron, who said he was talking to Labour and Tory MPs. 
"This is a moment for realignment... We recognise that people might want to do other things in which case we are happy to talk about that as well," he added, saying that politicians from different parties who had worked together on the referendum campaign had found they had more in common than the EU. 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               118 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK promises no return to 'borders of the past' in Ireland; Brexit vote aftermath

BYLINE: George Parker in London

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 592 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: UK prime minister Theresa May has promised that Brexit will not lead to a restoration of "the borders of the past" in Ireland, but her visit yesterday to Belfast in Northern Ireland left more questions than answers about the future of the north-south frontier.
The government has yet to come up with an answer as to how the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland can be as porous as it is today, once it becomes an external EU frontier.
Mrs May will today meet Enda Kenny, Ireland's prime minister, to discuss how free movement of people and goods might be maintained after Britain leaves the EU, with Mr Kenny insisting there can be no return to a "hard border".
Mrs May said: "What we want to do is find a way through this that is going to work and deliver a practical solution for everybody."
Both Mrs May and her ministers repeat the formula about not returning to "the borders of the past", a deliberately vague phrase that leaves the way open for some kind of border checks in future. Many people in Northern Ireland associate the "borders of the past" with the Troubles: army checkpoints, barbed wire and country lanes sealed off. Nobody in London or Dublin envisages a return to those measures.
But Mrs May has yet to explain how Britain can "take control" of its borders - a theme of the Leave campaign ahead of the referendum - if it leaves a new external frontier with the EU wide open with no passport checks.
Nor has she explained how - if Britain leaves the EU customs union - she can prevent smuggling by people wishing to avoid new tariffs and administrative checks if there are no customs posts on the border.
Northern Ireland voted by 56 per cent to 44 per cent to Remain and Martin McGuinness, Sinn Féin deputy first minister, said after meeting Mrs May that there was "no good news whatsoever in Brexit for anybody in the north".
Arlene Foster, the first minister, revealed after the meeting that at least one option appears to be off the table: leaving the north-south border open, but introducing internal controls between Northern Ireland and the mainland Great Britain. "There must be no internal borders within the UK," Ms Foster said.
Mrs May, who has pledged to defend the Union, would not relish the idea of introducing checks to the passports of Northern Ireland residents when they travel to the mainland.
Mrs May appeared to suggest that free movement of people across the border would continue : "We had a common travel area between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland many years before either country was a member of the European Union," she said.
Lord Mandelson, former Northern Ireland secretary, said it was vital to maintain free movement and to keep the border open; both are seen as important aspects of the peace process.
But he failed to see how, if Britain left the EU customs union, there could continue to be unimpeded free trade in goods across the border.
That point was also made in the Financial Times last month by Jonathan Powell , Northern Ireland negotiator from 1997 to 2007, who said a British exit from the customs union would have serious consequences.
"You could not possibly have goods flowing backwards and forwards across the 499km border with Ireland unchecked, or else there would be a gaping backdoor to the EU through the province," he wrote.
"That would mean that the 200-odd lanes and byways between north and south, which were blocked with enormous concrete slabs during the Troubles for security reasons but opened up when peace came, would have to be closed once again."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (59%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); IE Ireland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               119 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 2:32 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Virgin Money shelves small business plans amid Brexit uncertainty; Bank shifts focus from high-street branches to digital-only strategy on expectation of interest rate cut

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 520 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Virgin Money has shelved plans to launch a banking service for small businesses in response to the uncertainty caused by the British vote to leave the European Union.
Jayne-Anne Gadhia, chief executive, said she expected interest rates to fall by a quarter of a point from their historic low of 0.5% and remain there for at least three years. 
Gadhia added that Virgin had concluded that instead of offering current accounts from high-street branches it should focus on developing a digital-only offering.
"We can't see a way of making an old-fashioned current account work for us," said Gadhia, who had been calling on the competition authorities to the end the practice of offering currents accounts for free. Major banks are able to subsidise free bank accounts through extra charges such as overdraft fees, which in turn blocks smaller competitors from charging for accounts because customers will balk at the concept of paying fees when they can get a free current account elsewhere. 
The change to the outlook for interest rates - as recently as March she had been planning on rates staying at 0.5% for two years - means that the bank dropped its profit guidance to the City for the next year. The City expects interest rates to be cut on 4 August, the next meeting of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee, after the central bank's governor Mark Carney said after the 23 June referendum that there was a case for monetary easing.
Gadhia was speaking as Virgin's share price - which has been battered since the Brexit vote - rose by 7% after the  release of first-half figures. Profits gained 13% on the same period a year ago to £93.7m, or 53% to £101.8m if the costs of its stock market flotation and other items are excluded. 
The shares were priced at 283p in the November 2014 flotation. They fell close to 200p in the aftermath of the referendum on concerns about the impact of low interest rates on its business model and were trading at 264p after the results.
Gadhia said it was improbable that the Bank of England would cut rates into negative territory but said she expected other major lenders to follow Royal Bank of Scotland - and its NatWest arm - in warning of the impact of negative rates.
RBS faces criticism from small business customers after suggesting it could impose charges on deposits if rates fall below zero. "My own view is if RBS has done that it seems unlikely that the other banks don't follow suit. It just becomes another charge," said Gadhia.
Savings rates would probably to have to be cut after a move by the Bank of England, but would not fall into negative territory. 
Gadhia, who had supported the remain campaign, is focusing on credit cards and maintained her target for £3bn of lending on credit cards by the end of 2017. She played down concerns about the bank's exposure to the buy-to-let mortgage market, which is about 17% of its lending. 
Customer behaviour had not altered since the Brexit vote said Gadhia, who was among the delegation that accompanied the new chancellor, Philip Hammond, to China last week, and was strong enough to deal with post-referendum uncertainty.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               120 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: We will be as big as Apple, vows Arm's owner; Masayoshi Son says the British chip designer can enjoy stellar growth despite the Brexit vote, reports James Dean

BYLINE: James Dean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36,37

LENGTH: 901 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Ahuge investment programme at Arm Holdings will propel Britain's largest technology company on to the same plane as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple and Alibaba, its new owner has said.
Demand for new microchips to power the "internet of things" will elevate Arm to the ranks of the world's biggest technology businesses, Masayoshi Son, below, chief executive of SoftBank, told The Times.
SoftBank, a Japanese internet and communications multinational, is to buy Arm for £24.3 billion in the largest takeover of a European technology company. Mr Son has provided undertakings to invest in research and to double Arm's UK workforce in the next five years.
The takeover, announced last week, was heralded by the government as a vote of confidence in Britain after the Brexit vote. However, Mr Son suggested that his acquisition alone was not an accurate bellwether.
He said: "I have many business friends who are top executives and I know some of them are talking about maybe Brexiting their own headquarters. The sentiment of the discussion among the business community is that they're very concerned about the British business environment. If they talk about investment, they would rather go outside [Britain]. I'm not affected by such things. I'm maybe one of a very few companies that is contrarian to that.
"I have many friends - American friends, Japanese friends, other Asian friends. If they have a discussion about the UK situation I don't hear many optimistic opinions. I hear concerns.
"I'm still committed to the success of the UK and the belief of the strong intelligence and passion and determination of the British people. I'm a strong believer of their long-term historical success."
Mr Son, 58, said that the Brexit vote did not influence his decision to buy Arm, a Cambridge-based company that designs microchips and licenses their blueprints for manufacture. "I did not calculate the political change," he said. "I'm looking at the technological shift. I was looking at Arm for ten years. For me, the more important factor was, 'when do I have enough cash?'" The cost of acquiring Arm did not fall, despite the sharp decline in sterling after the referendum vote because Arm's share price rose by roughly the same proportion over the same period, he said.
Mr Son said that there were "several very successful platform companies" in the technology industry, listing Apple, Google, Facebook, Amazon and Alibaba. These companies had "enormous respect" across the world, he said. "Arm is going to be one of those guys. It will get the respect from the people and the industry at that kind of level."
Mr Son declined to estimate how long it would take to grow Arm to the size of one of the five companies, but said: "I've helped Alibaba [get] to that kind of scale. I have a feeling that Arm has a right to be that kind of scale."
Mr Son, who founded SoftBank in 1981, said that his relationship with Arm would be as a "very long-term, very strategic, very stable shareholder".
"I share the vision with the management," he said. "I see the direction of the company. They [management] are the formula of success. Why should I change that?" Most of the world's smartphones contain chips designed by Arm. Mr Son said that Tim Cook, chief executive of Apple, and Steve Mollenkopf, chief executive of Qualcomm, which makes chips for Samsung, were "very happy" with SoftBank's acquisition. Mr Son said: "Apple and Qualcomm said the same thing to me: they want to develop much further [their] technologies. And if Arm would be encouraged to make more investment into technology ... they will be very happy.
"We have no conflict with Apple or with any other vendors. We do not buy any chips. We do not make any chips. We are not making any hardware using the chips. Arm has to stay neutral."
Robot wars 'will remain a fiction' Artificial superintelligence will soon be able to out-think humans, helping to cure incurable diseases and protect against natural disasters, the boss of SoftBank said (James Dean writes).
"I truly believe a singularity is coming," Masayoshi Son said, referring to the time when artificial intelligence surpasses human intelligence.
Mr Son believes the intelligence of computers will surpass that of mankind "dramatically in this century". However, he does not foresee the battle-scarred landscapes of dystopian science fiction films.
Mr Son said: "If you talk about really long term, that computing intelligence will become superintelligence. Diseases - incurable diseases - would start to diminish. Natural disasters ... would be monitored much more in real time and have a lot of predictions, much more precisely, so people know when and how earthquakes and hurricanes are coming.
"All kinds of sensing of the many things will be done in real time. That will feed in - the 'big data' - and help the super-intelligence to become a real super-intelligence.
"If we have those technologies, it will make people happier. Any company which would do the good thing for the people, sooner or later will be Masayoshi Son thinks robots will not bring about Armageddon, but will be cute and servile, like SoftBank's Pepper, below rewarded. The financial return will come not by chasing, but by providing the good thing for the people."
Mr Son, who is worth an estimated £7.4 billion, said he was not interested in personal financial gain. "I have enough to spend," he said.
"Beyond that, it's just numbers."


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               121 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 8:12 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The Crown writer Peter Morgan: 'I bet the queen would've voted Brexit'; The writer, whose new Netflix series The Crown tracks the queen's reign, spoke about Brexit, as well as the royal family's reaction to the show, in Los Angeles

BYLINE: Nigel M Smith

SECTION: TELEVISION & RADIO

LENGTH: 490 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Although it's unknown whether Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Phillip are subscribers to Netflix, the pair are allegedly "very, very aware" of the streaming giant's much-hyped series  The Crown, said the project's writer Peter Morgan. 
The epic royal drama, which marks Netflix's first UK production, was inspired by Morgan's hit play, The Audience, which imagined the Queen's weekly meetings with the British prime minister of the day. Each season of The Crown is dedicated to a decade in Queen Elizabeth II's reign, with the first 10-episode installment, directed by Stephen Daldry (The Hours, Billy Elliot), centering on her ascension to the throne while forging a relationship with war-hardened prime minister Winston Churchill. 
 Related:  Netflix confirms epic drama The Crown, about No 10 and Buckingham Palace
Morgan, who has extensive experience writing about the royal family (having also written the screenplay for Stephen Frears' Oscar-winning drama The Queen ), joked Netflix is working on getting her endorsement for the show, according to Variety.
"Through untraceable back channels, countless approaches have been made," he quipped during Netflix's panel for the show at the Television Critics Association summer press tour. 
Still, Morgan says that he is happy the royal family has no involvement whatsoever in the show. "I want my independence, they want theirs," he said. "I don't want to be associated with the palace." 
Morgan, however, believes they will come around to liking The Crown, because "a series dealing with this subject with respect is a rare thing". "These are people who are not used to being taken seriously," he added. 
The 25-year-old queen will be played by Claire Foy, who took the role of another royal - Anne Boleyn - in the BBC's celebrated version of Hilary Mantel's novel Wolf Hall. Foy said there was little homework to do, because the queen "doesn't express herself" publicly. "I just had to imagine what it was like, being a girl who wanted to live in the countryside with her husband and children and dogs and horses. She was a shy, retiring type, very close to her lovely sister, and suddenly she's given the top job, and she's the most unlikely person to have it. I think she's a very good, good person who has given her life for her country, whichever way you look at it." The young Prince Philip will be played by former Doctor Who Matt Smith. 
John Lithgow, playing Churchill, meanwhile admitted to being "very intimidated" as an American actor entering the production. He called Churchill "the ultimate Englishman".
When asked to address Britain's recent decision to leave to the European Union, Morgan said the vote was "great box office" for the queen and "desperate box office for democracy and the democratic process".
"I bet [the queen] would've voted Brexit," he added. "But to her eternal agony or eternal relief, she's never voted in her life."
The Crown premieres on Netflix on 4 November


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               122 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 10things we know about Brexit (that we didn't a month ago)

BYLINE: John Downing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 809 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: 1 Bookies and money markets also get things horribly wrong: Opinion polls were discredited in Britain during the 2015 general election. They predicted a hung parliament, but David Cameron's Conservatives won an overall majority.
Polls right up to June 23 unconvincingly suggested a narrow win for Remain.
But Remain advocates took more confidence from the bookies, which were offering almost 3/1 for Leave and odds-on for Remain. The money market dealers also predicted a Remain win.
2 Trade: Any school pupil with half an ear open in geography class could tell you Britain is Ireland's biggest export market. The surprising fact that has emerged is how important the reverse relationship is.
In fact, Britain sells more to Ireland than its combined exports to China, India, Brazil and Russia. Both countries want to ensure that there are no tariffs or levies. But Ireland is legally prevented from concluding one-to-one deals with Britain, which must deal with the rest of the EU.
3 Theresa May: In Ireland, she was only a vague name in the news. Mr Cameron, who was reelected in 2015, looked set to be PM for years. We're going to learn a lot more about hyper-cautious Ms May, a lukewarm Remain supporter, who came through tough leadership jousts to win.
4 Article 50: The EU was like the Hotel California - no one could ever leave. Then Article 50 of the EU Treaty was enacted, providing for a two-year exit time frame.
Britain alone can decide when to trigger this process. Once it has done so, this gives big power to the member states, who must agree the terms of Brexit by 'super qualified majority' - 72pc of the remaining member countries, representing 65pc of the EU population.
A dis-United Kingdom? 5 The Brexit result was barely an hour old when there were calls for another independence referendum in Scotland, where six out of 10 voted Remain. There have also been calls for a border poll in the North, where 56pc backed Remain.
In England, the north and midlands carried a Leave vote, which also won in Wales.
We may be looking at a major realignment of relations in these islands, complicating what Ireland is trying to achieve. But London keeps stressing that it was a "UK referendum" and now requires a "UK deal".
6 Ireland's post-Brexit aims: These are easier to state than to achieve. Dublin wants to help keep Britain in the single market. That is hard to do because Britain is refusing to agree continued free movement of EU citizens - which is a fundamental principle for the others.
Ireland also wants to keep the Common Travel Area, which has been in force since the 1920s. We need to ensure no return of customs or identity controls on the 300-mile border between Dundalk and Derry.
The border risks becoming a de facto EUUK frontier. A bilateral arrangement between Dublin and London is not possible.
7 Tensions in the North: Arlene Foster took over as Northern Ireland's First Minister last January. It was assumed that tensions between herself and Sinn Féin's Martin McGuinness would be defused over a relatively short time.
Then the Brexit result landed as something very unhelpful from the outside. DUP leader Ms Foster was a Leave supporter, who now insists that the North, which voted 56pc to Remain, must abide by "a UK result".
Mr McGuinness insists that the North cannot be further divided from the Republic by exiting the EU.
8 Power struggles in Brussels: Back in 2009, when Article 50 came into force, a new post of President of the European Council was created. It was styled as the permanent chairperson of the EU leaders' summit.
But now the person holding that office, Donald Tusk of Poland, has emerged as a potential lead figure in Brexit proceedings.
This has dismayed Jean-Claude Juncker and his colleagues in the policyguiding Commission, who believe it is their job.
9 Everyday life: The Taoiseach has revealed that there are 500 EU-funded education partnerships between Irish and British colleges. Mr Kenny has said that already the EU Commission has been warning about funding when Brexit kicks in.
People availing of their EU right to medical treatment in another member state may have to travel further to countries where the language and culture are rather different. Post-Brexit, the EU scheme will not apply in the UK.
10Holiday homes: The Brexit impact on the value of Irish holiday homes on the Mediterranean is also uncertain.
Pensioners are by far the biggest group among the 1.3 million UK citizens in other EU states. While nothing changes for at least two years, UK overseas pensioners are fretful about health entitlements and standards of living.
If they sell up in large numbers, many Irish holiday home owners could see the prices of their properties plummet.
The number of UK buyers in the Irish property market has also been significant in recent years, but with the Sterling plunging, this will surely change.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); WALES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               123 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: AB InBev leaves SABMiller's post-Brexit deal tweakers thunderstruck

BYLINE: Jonathan Guthrie

SECTION: LOMBARD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 449 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Hells bells! Carlos Brito , AC/DC fan and chief executive of Anheuser-Busch InBev, has delivered an ultimatum to investors critical of his takeover offer for SABMiller. He has accompanied a small top-up to the cash part of the £79bn deal with the dread words "final offer". That means the Belgian-US brewer will walk away rather than sweeten the price further.
The hard-nosed Brazilian is putting a cannon shot across the bows of Martin Gilbert of Aberdeen Asset Management and other dissident SABMiller shareholders. They believe a fall in the pound against the euro means the deal terms now disadvantage them. This could be the first - and possibly only - megadeal stymied by post-referendum currency gyrations.
Mr Brito has raised the cash offer targeted at long funds and hedgies from £44 to £45 per SABMiller share. But an alternative offer in restricted shares and cash - designed for industrial investors Altria and BevCo, which hold 41 per cent of the South Africa-rooted beer group - has risen from £39 to about £51 per share.
This reflects a jump in the sterling value of AB InBev's euro-denominated shares, as well as an 88p increase to the cash kicker included in the alternative offer to £4.70 per share.
Mr Gilbert is over-egging it when he says this is unfair. Fund managers as big and tough as him should be able to bear forex fluctuations. And any investor can take the cash and shares option created for Altria and BevCo, if they can stomach a five-year lock-up on the stock.
The view of the Scot is coloured by his belief that SABMiller would flourish as an independent. Hedgies, such as Elliott Advisors, an activist that agitated for a "bump", are likely to take the money rather than see the deal fail.
You might then expect long funds to fall in line, and vote for the takeover. But many will first discuss the angles with Jan du Plessis , shrewd chairman of SABMiller. He broached a potential revision of terms with AB InBev. His board has not recommended the revised offer, however.
Mr Brito's unilateral decision to "go final" has freed Mr Du Plessis to recommend a No vote if that represents the mood among fellow directors and independent investors.
Altria and BevCo would probably still vote in favour. But a judge may yet bifurcate the poll, with industrial investors and independents voting separately. If less than 75 of the latter by value and 50 per cent in number support the takeover, it would fail.
Mr Brito, who has headbanged to Mr Du Plessis' tune during much of the offer period, is trying to turn the tables. If the South African calls his bluff, it could leave the deal, not on AC/DC's infamous "Highway to Hell", but a road to nowhere.
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BE Belgium; BR Brazil; XR Americas; XG Europe; XC Latin America; XE South America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               124 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Autins Group; Post-Brexit Aim listing

BYLINE: Peter Campbell

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 180 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A British engineering company that reduces noise in Bentleys and Range Rovers will become one of the first businesses to complete an initial public offering since the Brexit vote when it lists next month.
Autins Group, which is short for automotive insulation, will begin trading on London's Aim market within a fortnight after raising £26.6m from blue-chip investors.
The float, to be announced to the stock market today, will value the business, which started in a garage in 1966 selling rubber to Land Rover, at just under £40m.
There had been worries of a dearth of stock market activity in the wake of Britain's vote to leave the EU. The Autins float is one of the first to be completed, with new investors brought on board following the referendum.
"The feedback we got before the vote from the City was to wait," said chief executive Jim Griffin . "We went round after the count to see if people were still interested, and they were still excited."
The company made £19.9m in revenues during 2015 and £910,000 of pre-tax profit, a figure expected to rise this year. Peter Campbell


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               125 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and a Border poll

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 331 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, - Lord Kilclooney, the doyen of Ulster unionism better known as John Taylor, always enjoys winding up opinion on this side of the Border, and his letter (Letters, July 21st) runs true to form.
Of course, the Northern Ireland vote to remain, in the recent Brexit referendum, is not to be interpreted as an open-ness now by a majority in Northern Ireland to voting in a Border poll for a united Ireland. The Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin did not suggest otherwise in his MacGill summer-school speech.
However, in making this point, Lord Kilclooney ventures into more disputable territory. Few people in this State would describe themselves as "Southern Irish", and even "Northern Irish" is some distance off being a generally accepted common self-description by either unionists or nationalists in Northern Ireland. 
Everyone from this island is either Irish or entitled to be if they wish. It is just as consistent with the constitutional settlement in the Belfast Agreement to look forward occasionally to conditions that would require the holding of a Border poll, as it is for those in Northern Ireland who define themselves as primarily or exclusively British to reiterate constantly their unchanging support for the union.
It is the UK electorate that has decided in its wisdom to leave the EU and as a consequence to weaken its association with other member countries, including those with which it has the closest links. 
There is at least as much onus on the UK as there is on Ireland to contain the fall-out, and in particular to ensure that Northern Ireland and the border region do not lose out disproportionately. 
It is regrettable that there has to be a serious question-mark over whether the EU single market in Ireland under whatever modalities can continue. 
To a large extent and to mutual benefit, and in conjunction with the peace process, it restored the free movement of goods and persons throughout Ireland. 
- Yours, etc, 
MARTIN MANSERGH 
Tipperary, 
Co Tipperary. 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); NORTHERN IRELAND (95%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               126 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 4:30 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit exposed deep rifts in Britain. Universities can help heal them; Students and staff are leaving the lecture theatres and reaching out to those in their communities who need it most

BYLINE: Gabriel Huntley

SECTION: HIGHER EDUCATION NETWORK

LENGTH: 1014 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: "Students, society and the economy" - in the government's white paper, published in May, ministers were clear about where they believe universities' responsibilities lie.
Since then the shockwaves of the EU referendum have reverberated through the sector, with calls for universities and the scientific community to help repair the divides - economic, cultural, social and regional - exposed by the result. 
 Related:  Brexit has sparked an identity crisis in UK universities
It is not new to suggest that there is an important link between institutions and the wider population. But this relationship hasn't been without its tensions over the years. In medieval Cambridge, town v gown grievances led to a crowd of angry townspeople attacking the university, burning its documents and ransacking its buildings. 
Even in the brave new world of the 1960s, the campuses of plate glass universities rose up on out-of-town sites which once were fields - away from the hubbub of the city, as though designed consciously to turn their backs on civic life. 
                   Beyond the campus                   
Today, the role of higher education in supporting social progress is still often seen simply through the lens of access. But there is a huge amount that institutions are doing to support and empower communities beyond the campus, directly addressing some of the toughest challenges facing society, tackling the causes and consequences of inequality.
Take the refugee crisis. In Middlesbrough - which is home to the UK's second largest community of refugee and asylum seekers outside of London - Teesside University is helping marginalised and vulnerable people participate in society. 
This has meant genuinely opening up the university: giving refugees and asylum seekers access to English language classes and allowing them to attend lectures as guests. Those who fled their homes before being able to finish their degrees, or who simply want to learn new skills, have been able to continue engaging with study. 
Significantly, this has involved students as well as staff: Teesside's nursing students are working alongside refugee groups to support the community's access to healthcare, while media and journalism students have documented their stories through films and interviews. 
 Related:  University innocence projects: where are they now?
And the learning goes both ways - a project starting later this year will involve native speakers from the refugee community teaching university staff words in Arabic and Farsi, recognising that the university, its staff and its students can benefit from the talents and expertise of refugees and asylum seekers too.
                   Citizen engagement                   
In its most recent annual predictions, innovation charity Nesta heralded the emergence of challenge-driven universities, focused on solving real-world problems. Six pilot social innovation projects, supported by the Higher Education Funding Council for England, demonstrate how this is already happening: universities directly collaborating with communities, addressing social issues through citizen engagement.
These include a group of five universities workingwith populations in six areas as part of the Appetite for Change project. Seeking to gain a better understanding of food poverty, it identifies the challenges that need to be addressed and will develop new ways of building resilience, including through technology and alternative food systems.
Another project brings together Manchester Metropolitan and Edge Hill universities to focus on mental health in young men and boys in the Everton area, in light of evidence that 75 per cent of those committing suicide under the age of 25 are male.
Using video booths installed in communal spaces in the neighbourhood, it encourages young men at risk of mental health problems to discuss their feelings more openly. In turn, the findings will inform the way local services are designed and delivered, working alongside the police, social care and mental health professionals.
                   Innovation and creativity                   
Along with using academic rigour and evidence to inform better social outcomes, universities can bring innovative thinking and creativity.
 Related:  International student numbers have been plummeting for years. Now what?
The University of Salford, for example, is supporting the transformation of Pendleton, a community on its doorstep. Research will be used to ensure the design of new homes and public spaces supports ecological sustainability and healthy living, and students from its School of Arts and Media will be helping residents make a documentary to create a living legacy, bringing the community together around a shared creative project.
Elsewhere, budding student entrepreneurs and innovators are putting their talents to work to assist local small firms with the challenges they face through hackathons, creative projects or placements with SMEs - gaining new skills and experience and supporting the local community. 
These examples demonstrate how universities' impact in creating a better society goes beyond simply those who work and study within their walls. They provide models which institutions can - and must - build upon: acting as a platform, bringing local communities together with students, researchers, professionals and practitioners, providing the glue to maintain relationships over time.
For many institutions, this wider role has always been part of the university mission, but it deserves to be recognised and championed right across the sector. Universities must be active participants, not disinterested bystanders, with the aim of addressing inequality through actions as well as words being fundamental to the way they see themselves.
                     Join the higher education network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on Twitter @gdnhighered. And if you have an idea for a story, please read our guidelines and email your pitch to us at highereducationnetwork@theguardian.com                   


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               127 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 2:17 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit is hitting the economy hard - negative interest rates could be next; The vote to leave the EU has been a nasty negative shock to the UK economy that is going to lower living standards and cause much pain and suffering

BYLINE: David Blanchflower

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 914 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Since the leave vote in the EU referendum, the bad economic news has continued to roll in. A survey by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors published on 14 July, which accounts for the post-referendum period, shows a sharp fall in inquiries from homebuyers. Markit's flash purchasing managers index (PMI) surveys taken after the vote for both manufacturing and services were especially grim. They exclude retail and construction which may well be even harder hit.
 Related:  Manufacturers feeling gloomy about future after Brexit vote
The CBI industrial trends survey of 506 manufacturers suggested that the outlook for the next three months is set to soften. Investment is expected to be lower over the coming year compared with the last 12 months. Five percent of firms in the survey said they were more optimistic about the general business situation than three months ago, but 52% said they were less optimistic. Fourteen percent of firms expect employment to increase, and 20% expect it to decline. These data have scared monetary policymakers senseless. The data suggests the UK is slowing and probably headed to recession. The latest GDP data for the second quarter of 2016 show a surge in April and a slowing in May and June.
A week ago two external monetary policy committee (MPC) members both said that the case for a cut in interest rates was unclear. On 20 July Kristin Forbes argued that the MPC should "wait for the Brexit fog to clear before an interest rate cut" and it was "a good time to keep calm and carry on". Turns out it isn't. Martin Weale said on the 18 July that the case for a post-Brexit rate cut was "not clear". A week later he had changed his mind, primarily, he told us, because the PMIs were "a lot worse than I had thought" and they "showed signs of worsening further". The concern is that this would have negative consequences on banks' profitability and the supply of credit. A week is a long time in economics. As JM Keynes famously said: "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?" Good for him. Weale joins the Bank of England governor Mark Carney, MPC member Jan Vlieghe who voted for a cut in July, and chief economist Andy Haldane in the stimulus crowd. It now seems the doves are in control. Hopefully, Forbes will have a fast rethink.
To this point the MPC haven't cut below 0.5%, whereas other central banks went to zero, because of their concerns that this would constrain the ability of banks and building societies to extend new credit. But that is set to change at the 4 August meeting as, for the first time since I voted for a rate cut in March 2009 from 1% to 0.5%, the MPC is going to put those fears aside and is likely to cut rates to 0.25% and maybe even to zero. The MPC has hinted it will put in place a "package" of measures, which will likely include a further round of quantitative easing although we don't know yet what assets they will buy. But they may not stop at zero and may eventually go lower. I don't see this happening in August, but there is a distinct possibility down the road, if the data worsens further, as it well might, that rates will have to go negative. Clients are charged a fee for parking their money in a bank. Monetary policy is the only show in town, especially as the new chancellor, who is still getting up to speed, is either unwilling or unable to inject fiscal stimulus, as he should, any time soon. But he may soon have to.
This is not pie-in-the-sky economics; it is a real possibility and banks are already preparing. NatWest wrote to its 850,000 business customers this week, changing the terms and conditions of their accounts and warning of the possibility that negative interest rates may be coming. In the letter NatWest said: "Global interest rates remain at very low levels and in some markets are currently negative. Dependent on future market conditions, this could result in us charging interest on credit balances."
 Related:  The Guardian view on the post-Brexit economy: fear itself | Editorial
Everyone else is doing it. Negative rates are already being charged by the European Central Bank; along with the central banks of Japan; Denmark, Switzerland, Sweden and Hungary. Lower rates encourage business investment and consumer spending and the hope is that there is a nice continuum from positive rates to small negatives. The hope is a cut of 25 basis points from 0.5 to 0.25% would have the same impact as one from zero to -0.25%, but who knows? The concern, though, is that negative rates would have harmful consequences on banks' profitability and the supply of credit. We don't know if they will work or the exact transmission mechanism they work through. But I would vote for them if the data worsened markedly; they are worth a shot.
How low could rates go? Vlieghe has argued that he thinks rates might go as low as -0.5% or even to -1%. He argues that this is possible because there are costs of storing and transporting and insuring huge piles of cash. But they could it go even lower than that, for a short time, say, to -2% or even lower to give a short, sharp shock, as Miles Kimball from the University of Michigan has advocated. Economists used to think that zero was the lower limit for interest rates, but it seems rates can go below zero. The vote to leave the EU has been a nasty negative shock to the UK economy that is going to lower living standards and cause much pain and suffering. A self-inflicted wound. The Brexiters were warned.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               128 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit will hit Northern Ireland harder, say majority of firms

BYLINE: Francess McDonnell

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 196 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A significant majority of Northern firms believe that Brexit "will have a greater economic impact" in the North than the UK as a whole, according to a new poll.
The poll of business leaders, undertaken at a post-Brexit event in Belfast yesterday by the Confederation of British Industry, found 89 per cent believe Brexit will hit Northern Ireland harder than the UK overall.
According to 92 per cent of local business leaders, the decision to leave the EU will be "negative" for the North's economy over the next five years. 
The survey revealed that 33 per cent also said Brexit would have a negative impact on their operations, with just 2 per cent stating that it would be positive. 
The latest CBI poll showed that around 58 per cent of local businesses were still analysing the overall impact while 96 per cent also wanted Northern Ireland to have its own trade representative at the table during the Brexit negotiations.
According to the CBI, possible changes to taxation, currency values and trade costs are the chief concerns of Northern Ireland businesses.
David Gavaghan, CBI Northern Ireland chairman, said: "Many businesses in Northern Ireland are asking what to do now."


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               129 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit will not stall us, vows car and plane parts maker

BYLINE: Marcus Leroux

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 351 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: GKN, the car and aircraft parts maker, said it planned to cut costs by £30 million a year and divert efforts to its core automotive and aviation divisions as it brushed off Brexit threats.
The FTSE 100 engineering company said that its integration of Fokker, the Dutch aircraft parts maker that it acquired for (EURO)706 million last year, was on track and performing well and that it did not expect any significant impact on orders from uncertainty caused by the vote to leave the EU last month.
"The Brexit effect on European confidence looks like it will be there but that will just reduce growth, not eliminate growth. With the global market it doesn't look like it will make that much of a difference," Nigel Stein, GKN chief executive, said.
Britain accounts for about 10 per cent, or 6,000, of GKN's workforce and the company generates about 12 per cent of its sales here.
The £30 million in savings will arrive from 2017 after up-front one-off costs of £35 million this year. Savings will be hit by "organisational changes", such as not filling vacancies.
While its core automotive and aviation reported improved revenue in the half, its land systems division, which makes parts for agricultural and construction machinery, suffered a 6 per cent decline in sales, with the prospect of further decreases to come.
GKN said it would direct its investment towards improving productivity in aerospace and automotive divisions.
Overall, pre-profits were down 14 per cent at £182 million in the first half, although GKN said stripping out one-off costs and benefits profit was up 12 per cent at £344 million, on revenue 17 per cent higher at £4.5 billion. The dividend was raised 2 per cent to 2.95p a share.
Sandy Morris, an analyst at Jefferies, said: "Our sense is that GKN is in good shape, although the 2 per cent dividend increase and plan to reduce 2017 fixed costs by £30 million suggest it is not plain sailing." Analysts at UBS said the new "capital allocation focus" would mean less investment for the land systems division and a possible sale of business units. The shares rose 11p to 301p. Tempus, page 46


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               130 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: British political identity and visions of Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 639 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Whatever Dominic Raab may claim ("If we play clever, we can keep our EU trade", Opinion, July 25), the referendum result does not mandate any particular form for Brexit to take. The Leave campaign did not specify any such form, and the ballot paper did not ask about it. Those who voted to leave will have had all sorts of reasons for doing so and assumptions about what would happen afterwards, but all they actually voted for was to leave the EU, nothing else.
If the government decides that continued single market membership, including free movement, via the European Economic Area would be the least damaging way of implementing this vote it would be entirely legitimate for it to do so. And if Leave campaigners don't like this then they should have responded to the repeated demands made of them during the campaign to articulate precisely what they were asking people to vote for, rather than against. professor christopher grey Royal Holloway, University of London Sir, Dominic Raab asserts that "French farmers and the powerful German business lobby will have something to say about politicians threatening their livelihoods and workers with vindictive protectionist gestures aimed at Britain". He seems to think that the response of the French, the Germans and everyone else in Europe will be to think of the money, put political considerations aside and agree to our demands. Brexiteers appear to believe, wrongly, that Britain can do as it pleases and everybody else will just have to bend over backwards to accommodate us; the level of entitlement they display beggars belief, and I am very nervous about the lesson in humility that the country may soon be taught.
alex o'brien Glasgow Sir, Melanie Phillips makes a number of assertions about the mandate the government has from the referendum ("If May goes soft on Brexit there'll be a revolt", July 26). The truth is that no such mandate exists, and no one has explained the terms on which the UK will seek to exit, let alone what the other 27 sovereign nations will agree to. This surely means there must be rigorous scrutiny by the House of Commons of what the Brexit negotiators plan to offer the British people, in all parts of these islands and in Gibraltar (remembering that three of the five constituencies voted to remain). The referendum did not give Leave campaigners a blank cheque to determine Britain's future relationships with the EU and others. That is parliament's responsibility, and those who championed the importance of self-governing democracy for the UK must surely accept this.
andrew fraser London SW19 Sir, Melanie Phillips claims that Remainers "think of themselves as European rather than British". This is an absurd assumption to make about the 48 per cent who voted to stay in the EU. Personally, I'm a Briton who simply wished to remain a member of the world's largest trading bloc.
She also claims that "those who voted Leave have a deep attachment to Britain, whose history and culture defines their political identity" - the clear implication being that those of us that wished to remain don't. I have studied this country's political history at two universities: my political identity has been defined by Britain's history. I believe I can maintain my British political and cultural identity, to which I am deeply attached, within a supra-national structure.
rory newman London E8 Sir, I am in Denmark on holiday and went to the local newsagent to buy a stamp for a letter to Great Britain. After having provided me with the stamp the shop assistant hesitated and said that he wanted a word with his boss to confirm that the postage was correct following the Brexit vote in Britain. I am now slightly uncomfortable driving a car with a British EU numberplate.
The implications of Brexit are far-reaching.
ebbe dinesen Hardwick, Northants


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GIBRALTAR (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               131 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 1:18 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: CBI blames post-Brexit caution for slump in high street spending; Snapshot of retail activity by employers' organisation immediately after referendum reveals biggest fall since January 2012

BYLINE: Larry Elliott

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 366 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The CBI has blamed a post- Brexit mood of caution among consumers for the biggest fall in high street spending in more than four years.
The employers' organisation said that a snapshot of retail activity taken in the period immediately after the 23 June referendum showed that individuals had kept tight control of their household budgets.
The CBI said 24% of retailers questioned between 28 June and 14 July said spending was up on the same period of 2016, while 38% said it was lower. The balance of -14 percentage points was the lowest since January 2012.
Concern that the tough trading environment will persist has led retailers cut back on orders from suppliers at the fastest rate since the economy was in the depths of recession in March 2009.
Supermarkets and furniture stores reported the most difficult trading conditions in the weeks after Brexit, while department stores and shoe shops said business was brisk. 
Online spending was also affected by the uncertainty, with the annual growth rate in sales dropping from +38 points in June to +23 points in July.
Rain Newton-Smith, the CBI's chief economist, said: "While conditions in the retail sector have weakened, we should be careful about reading too much too soon, as consumers were likely to err on the side of caution in the immediate period following a vote to leave the EU.
"Current low levels of inflation and high overall employment should support consumer spending in the near term, although the impact of lower sterling is likely to feed through to higher inflation over time.
"What businesses and consumers need now is calm and decisive leadership, a clear timetable and a plan for negotiating the UK's future outside the EU to restore confidence."
Sam Tombs, Pantheon Macro's UK economist, said: "The plunge in the reported sales balance in July to its lowest level since January 2012 indicates that consumers as well as businesses are immediately tightening their belts following the referendum. 
"The survey was undertaken in the first half of July and it is the first major retail report solely to cover the post-referendum period. Retailers' expectations for sales over the next month also fell to a four-and-a-half year low."


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               132 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Dublin needs to invest to gain from Brexit fallout; Addressing capital's shortcomings will be crucial if city is to attract businesses

BYLINE: Colm Lauder

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 744 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Irish property market has been through a whirlwind few years, swinging from the best- performing global investment market to the worst and back again. 
This has not helped Ireland's risk profile, but structural improvements, such as the introduction of Reits, have attempted to introduce a new longer-term investment objective. 
However, the recent popularity of the market here, fuelled by the dramatic price recovery and influx of new investors, does not mean the market is in any way immune, or indeed likely to benefit, from the Brexit fallout.
Brexit is forcing investors in UK property to grapple with uncertainty. While British equities tumbled only 3.1 per cent on the day after the UK voted to leave the European Union, shares in listed real estate firms fell 15.4 per cent. 
Losses for investors 
A significant number of key investment funds have closed for redemptions or increased redemption penalties, others have discounted yields while a number of prime London assets have, like in 2008, reappeared on the market.  
What's more, sterling's fall, which sank to its lowest level against the dollar in more than 30 years, caused more losses for investors in UK real estate stocks who failed to hedge their exposures to foreign-exchange risk. 
In light of this, there are a number of ways to view the uncertainty that prevails in the UK property market. 
First, geography may not spare investors who looked beyond London. Although London, Scotland and Northern Ireland all voted against Brexit - with the latter two possibly pushing to remain in the EU - London is the epicentre of the UK property market (37 per cent of investment real estate that MSCI tracks is in central London).
Investors can also view exposure by property sector and occupier type. London, the focus for international investors, holds one quarter of Britain's industrial and retail real estate but 69 per cent of its office buildings. 
The potential for post-Brexit London to lose jobs if companies move their operations elsewhere in the EU may translate into increased risk for investors in offices, particularly those with financial or professional services occupiers. 
Risk of relocation
 These two industries make up more than a third of all rent collected in the UK property market, making them the critical income source for London investors. A breakdown of rent collected by investors in the UK market is illustrated here.  
In this environment, risks to office leases are not spread evenly. Certain tenants, such as governmental entities, which leased about 10 per cent of office space as of March 2016, are by definition domestic. 
The greatest risk of relocation comes from the financial and services sectors, which together represent about 60 per cent of the rents in the UK office sector (although roughly 70 per cent in London). 
Even then, many businesses are legally bound to lease agreements for years. Within the financial and services sectors, the average remaining term for leases to multinational businesses is 4.7 years, compared with 6.3 years for leases signed by domestic firms.
If companies do move, owners of office buildings in cities throughout the rest of the UK and continental Europe may see an increase in demand for space. 
Ireland, to cite one destination, may benefit if murmurs from multinationals about moving their operations to Dublin translate to leases there. 
Dublin offers many advantages: rents are comparably cheaper than London, it is an established financial centre and is a short flight to London. Equally though, the Irish capital has its constraints.
Dublin continues to be held back when it comes to attracting leading financial houses and high-level staff for a multitude of reasons. 
Sustainable gains 
Poor infrastructure, the postponement of crucial transport projects such as Dart Underground, endemic lack of suitable rental accommodation for financial employees and uncompetitive high personal taxation, particularly for higher- earners, have eroded the attractiveness of businesses relocating to Dublin from London in a post-Brexit world.  
Addressing these issues will be crucial if Dublin is to be positioned as a viable option alongside Frankfurt, Paris and Amsterdam. Only then will real estate make meaningful and sustainable gains for the Irish market. Colm Lauder is vice president of real estate at MSCI, which provides research-based indexes and analytics to support the world's leading investors to build and manage better portfolios


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); IRELAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); EUROPE (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               133 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Economic growth expected to slow after Brexit vote

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 415 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The British economy is expected to show a slowdown in growth when official GDP figures are published today. GDP is forecast to have eased back to 0.3 per cent in the second quarter of this year, down from 0.4 per cent in the first quarter, as uncertainty grew before the referendum on the European Union.
A series of reports showed a mixed picture for the UK economy before the Brexit vote.
Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said that the first estimate for second quarter GDP from the Office for National Statistics would indicate whether the UK economy had headed into the EU referendum from a position of strength.
He added: "First, it will tell us if the referendum gave the UK economy the jitters in the lead-up to the vote. There are several indicators which have pointed to a slowdown in economic activity as the referendum approached. "Now we know the outcome of the vote, [today's] figures will also indicate whether we are entering the implementation of a Brexit from a position of strength, or as seems more likely, a position of weakness."
"[Today's] number therefore sets the scene for monetary and fiscal policy to come. In particular the question of whether the Bank of England will cut interest rates next week. The markets seem to think it will, they are currently pricing in a 95 per cent chance of a rate cut - though don't forget they got it badly wrong last time around."
The manufacturing industry delivered a better-than-expected fall of 0.5 per cent in May, dropping from April's rise of 2.4 per cent, but remaining ahead of a predicted slide of 1.1 per cent. Manufacturing output rose by 1.7 per cent in May compared with the same month in 2015.
However, construction output fell by more than expected over the same period, with output contracting by 2.1 per cent compared with April and 1.9 per cent year-on-year, according to the ONS.
Howard Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS Markit, said that the bulk of the available evidence showed that GDP growth was "relatively resilient in the second quarter". The latest economic data since the referendum result suggests that dark clouds are gathering over the British economy, with last Friday's flash PMI survey showing that UK economic growth had slumped this month at its fastest rate since the financial crisis.
Companies also revealed a gloomy outlook for trade in the latest CBI Industrial Trends survey on Monday, with business optimism deteriorating at its fastest pace since January 2009.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               134 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Fox aims to prove Treasury sceptics wrong on customs union; Brexit: Trade templates

BYLINE: George Parker

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Liam Fox travelled from Washington to Chicago yesterday as he continued a three-stop US tour, determined to prove that Britain can strike better trade deals and open new opportunities for exporters outside the EU.
Dr Fox, the international trade secretary , is confident he can prove to sceptics in government, including the Treasury, that the freedoms gained by leaving the EU's customs union outweigh the potential losses.
Government insiders say there is a "live debate" about whe-ther Britain should quit the customs union , even though staying inside it could restrict Dr Fox's ability to strike free trade deals or prevent them altogether.
Barack Obama, US president, warned before the Brexit referendum that Britain would be "at the back of the queue" for a new trade deal, but his team has been more emollient, if still wary, since the country voted to leave the EU.
US trade representative Michael Froman's office said: "The US will be prepared to engage in conversations with the UK about how to develop our trade and investment relationship in the best way at the appropriate time."
Dr Fox says he is "scoping out about a dozen free trade deals outside the EU to be ready for when we leave", setting a provisional target date for Brexit of January 1 2019. Australia has offered a deal with the UK "as soon as possible" and Dr Fox claimed last week that he had opened "very fruitful" talks with Canada on Friday. Chrystia Freeland, Canada's trade minister, said Britain could continue to take advantage of an EU trade deal even after it had left the Brussels club: the deal has taken over seven years to negotiate. "We cannot negotiate any new trade deals as long as we are part of the EU, which we will be for probably the next two years with an exit in early 2019," Dr Fox said in Washington.
"But we want to have discussions and to scope out any possible deals we might want to do immediately after that."
Meanwhile, Theresa May, prime minister and Philip Hammond, chancellor, still have to decide whether to leave the EU customs union; a move which would give Dr Fox the freedom he craves to set a new course. The question has barely registered in Britain's political consciousness, since most attention has focused on the related issue of whether the UK should retain access to the EU single market. The customs union is an area that allows the free movement of goods with no tariffs, but with barriers at the bloc's external airports, ports and land borders. The EU negotiates external tariffs and trade deals for its members.
Norway, often cited as a possible template for post-Brexit Britain, is a member of the European Economic Area and has tariff-free access to the single market for most goods, but is outside the customs union. That means that Norwegian exporters face additional administrative costs: goods entering the customs union face customs controls, paperwork and, depending on the goods, duties to pay.
The Treasury, before the referendum , cited an OECD study that found that "crossing the border, documentation and other delays can increase transaction costs of trade by up to 24 per cent of the value of traded goods". It warned that even if Britain negotiated tariff-free access to the single market, customs formalities would hit time-sensitive industries such as food and those with complex supply chains. In the case of Northern Ireland, the Treasury said "goods being exported across the border could be subject to various forms of customs controls", hitting the high level of trade with the Republic of Ireland.
"The latest data show 37 per cent (£3.6bn) of Northern Ireland's goods and services exports go to Ireland," the report said. Ireland is the province's biggest export market.
It is possible to be part of the EU customs union and not part of the EU: the Channel Islands, Monaco and San Mar-ino are members. So too is Turkey. Pro-Brexit campaigners say Britain would not seek to emulate Norway, Turkey or others, but winning an agreement that retains British frontier-free access to the EU customs union, continued access to the tariff-free EU single market, while exiting the EU and limiting free movement would be a notable achievement.
Before Britain begins to negotiate a departure from the customs union, the Treasury wants Dr Fox to reassure that alternatives will indeed be better.
Comment page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (73%); GB United Kingdom; US United States of America; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               135 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 9:45 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: FTSE moves higher but Capita drops as it warns on Brexit effect; Outsourcing group reports uncertainty and contract delays after EU vote

BYLINE: Nick Fletcher

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 444 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Leading shares are in positive territory ahead of the US Federal Reserve's latest interest rate decision and following reports of a major boost to the Japanese economy by the country's government. Stronger than expected UK GDP growth of 0.6% in the second quarter has also helped support the market.
But outsourcing group Capita is missing out, falling 22p or 2% to 967p after it warned the Brexit vote was having negative effects on its business. Chief executive Andy Parker said:
 While it is too early to know the impact of the recent EU referendum, it has created uncertainty, particularly in the financial services sector, and we are continuing to experience some delays in decision making in the short term. 
But it said it hoped that would be offset by further opportunities in the medium term. Half year profits roe by 8% to £285.3m on revenues up 5%. The bid pipeline rose from £4.7bn to £5.1bn. Stifel analyst Caroline de La Soujeole said:
 Headline numbers a touch ahead of consensus (2% beat at earnings per share level) with organic sales growth of 5%, return on capital employed stable and cash flow improving. However the outlook statement strikes a cautious tone for the remainder of the year noting increased uncertainty following the EU referendum and delays in decision making.  [The] outlook statement highlights increased uncertainty created from the Leave vote resulting in delays in decision making in the short-term particularly in the financial services sector. The company expects this to be more than offset by increased medium-term incremental opportunities. We are more circumspect. The stock has underperformed the FTSE All Share by 8% over the past month and 7% on a 3 month view reflecting investor concern over the likely impact of Brexit on tendering activity. In light of today's statement this seems to have been warranted.  
Overall the FTSE 100  is currently up 14.66 points at 6738.69.
                     ITV  is the biggest riser, up 15.1p to 199.9p after its results, while Taylor Wimpey  is leading housebuilders higher after recent share price weakness on Brexit worries. Taylor Wimpey is up 6.3p at 151.2p as it said the referendum result had yet to impact demand. Barratt Development is 15.6p better at 420.9p while Persimmon has put on 57p to £16.45.
Elsewhere St James's Place has added 27p to 911p after the wealth manager reported a better than expected 15% rise in net inflows to £3.1bn.
But a recent dip in the gold and silver price has left Fresnillo down 31p at £18.36 and Randgold Resources 135p lower at £85.50.
Among the mid-caps cigarette filter maker Essentra is down after JP Morgan cut from overweight to neutral.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               136 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Greencore shares fall amid 'lumpy' US sales; Sales growth slows in third quarter but firm says Brexit impact will be 'modest'

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 567 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Greencore shares fell 
yesterday as the convenience food group's sales momentum slowed in its fiscal third quarter and its US business continued to turn in what company executives called a "lumpy" performance. 
Chief executive Patrick Coveney said the group was confident the impact of Brexit on the business, which is dominated by UK sales, would be "very modest" in the near term, however.
He said Greencore's full-year performance would be in line with market expectations. 
Group sales rose 4 per cent to £360 million (EUR 428 million) in the 13 weeks to June 24th on the same period last year. Stripping out the impact of currency movements, sales rose 3.1 per cent, marking a slowdown from 7.5 per cent growth reported for the first half of the year. 
Shares in Dublin-based Greencore closed down 3.3 per cent in London at £3.11.
Sales in UK rose 5.7 per cent in the third quarter to outperform the wider market, driven by its food-to-go business comprising sandwiches, sushi and salads. However, it was less than half the growth rate seen in the first half. 
Excluding the benefit of a stronger dollar when translating sales into sterling, revenue in the US, where Starbucks and convenience store 7-Eleven are its main customers, fell 1 per cent in the third quarter.
This was mainly due to what Mr Coveney described on a call with analysts as "lumpy" customer orders for its frozen breakfast products and the closure during the year of a facility in Massachusetts. 
"Overall revenue momentum slowed sequentially in the third quarter, led by a modest revenue decline in the US," said Cathal Kenny, an analyst with Davy. 
"The development of the US revenue base is proving more volatile than anticipated owning to customer concentration." Mr Coveney was upbeat on the US business, however, saying it had become profitable since March, having posted a small loss in the first half of the year to the end of September. Chief financial officer Alan Williams predicted the unit's mixed quarterly performance would moderate and begin to deliver "high single-digit" to "low double-digit" growth in time as it won new business. 
Returning to the key UK division, the executives predicted Greencore would continue to outperform the wider convenience foods market with its market share set to "grow strongly" in the near term from about 15 per cent. 
It will be helped in the near term as two customers who currently rely on a number of convenience food suppliers will in future rely solely on Greencore. 
Analysts at Peel Hunt in London described Greencore's overall third-quarter performance as slightly soft, but said they expected a stronger fourth-quarter performance, with the group having recently opened a new facility in Seattle. 
While the UK decision to quit the EU is likely to have a very modest impact on Greencore in the short term, the company cautioned that the referendum had "resulted in greater uncertainty with regard to the UK economic outlook, and the longer-term implications remain unknown".
The Greencore UK businesses import less than a quarter of their ingredients and packaging materials, with existing purchase arrangements cushioning the company from a depreciation in sterling in the current financial year. 
However, if current exchange rates persist net debt at year end will be higher than expected at the half year, due to translation of US dollar-denominated borrowings, the company said. 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               137 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hibernia 'well placed' to benefit from potential Brexit demand

BYLINE: Ronald Quinlan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 494 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: HIBERNIA Reit is well placed to benefit from any possible influx of companies seeking to relocate from the UK to Dublin following the British electorate's decision to vote in favour of Brexit, according to its ceo, Kevin Nowlan. Highlighting the potential uplift at the company's AGM in Dublin yesterday, Mr Nowlan said: "I think companies will look in a very focused area.
"It will definitely be [in the] CBD (Central Business District) and more than likely the docks [is] where they'll be looking."
Hibernia has a significant number of office buildings, both existing and under development within the capital's central business district, leaving it well placed to meet any demand that may come from London as Britain's relationship with the EU is redefined in the coming years.
But Mr Nowlan cautioned that it would be another three months before UK firms began to make decisions in relation to possible relocation. The Hibernia ceo also said he got the sense that any potential moves would be on a departmental, as opposed to corporate, level were they to occur.
"I do think the floor-by-floor lettings are probably what people will look for initially, and I think a lot of it will be about [EU] passporting and regulatory rights within the EU," he said.
Hibernia announced yesterday that it had let the remaining 30,200 sq ft of available space in One Dockland Central, in Dublin's North Docks, to the Commission for Communications Regulation (ComReg). The State entity is responsible for the regulation of the electronic communications and postal sectors in Ireland.
ComReg joins HubSpot and Bank of New York Mellon as a tenant in the building, and will occupy the ground and second floors on a 20-year lease, with a tenant-only break option after 11 years.
It is set to pay initial rent of (EURO)1.6m per annum - an average of (EURO)50 per sq ft. Hibernia also revealed that Analytic Partners has taken up 5,200 sq ft in the Chancery Building in Dublin 2 on a 15-year lease with an initial rent of (EURO)200,000 - an average of (EURO)37 per sq ft.
The company didn't indicate if any tenant incentives had been given. Hibernia had net debt of (EURO)115m in cash, and undrawn credit facilities of (EURO)307m, at the end of June.
Asked if he believed the Irish market had reached saturation point in terms of Reit activity, Mr Nowlan said he believed the 'cash box' strategy pursued by Hibernia's rival, Green Reit, had largely been played out.
Referring to the challenge Hibernia had faced in terms of its own establishment, he said: "When we set about setting up Hibernia, you had a 'Catch 22'. If you didn't have the assets, you wouldn't set up the REIT, and if you didn't have the money, you couldn't get the assets.
"So in fairness to Green, the 'cash box' concept, a lot of people said 'it can't be done'. They proved it wrong. We followed, got another one [REIT] away. I think that's the difficulty."
Hibernia Reit shares closed down 1pc at (EURO)1.374 each yesterday.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               138 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: How expected surge in 'Brexit' imports could spell danger for buyers here; *Big increase of clocking in UK could impact here *And so could (EURO)750 extra in 'unexpected' repairs

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: MOTORS;NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 408 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Eddie Cunningham Motoring Editor MOTORISTS may profit from 'Brexit' with potentially lower prices and greater choice of models stemming from a huge surge in UK imports - but there are dangers lurking on the sidelines.
The anticipated wave of lower-priced used imports, on the back of weaker sterling has already begun, many experts feel.
Sterling has fallen 22pc since November, and if it weakens further, import numbers could increase even more.
That could mean lower prices for all used cars. (The downside is that your trade-in may be worth less and you'll have to pay more to change to a new or newer car).
That all remains to be seen but a number of recent reports suggest we also need to focus on other aspects of cars coming in here for the first time.
Firstly, it appears that clocking in the UK is on the rise. A report published earlier this year claims it has shot up by 10pc.
The Local Government Association (LGA) in Britain claims 'millions of miles' were slashed from odometers between March and October alone last year.
There is every chance a higher proportion of these vehicles will make their way onto the Irish market if there are more imports being sold here.
Even allowing for our NCT curbs, there is a high risk of some unsuspecting Irish buyers being sold a pup, and paying a heavy price.
The LGA says the situation is so serious it wants a proposed EU ban on all devices that can adjust a car odometer - some of which can be bought online for less than (EURO)150.
Another area overlooked, is the level of unexpected repairs that buyers face, after buying a used car - despite having them checked over in some cases.
The average cost of repairs that buyers didn't anticipate, is around (EURO)700, according to data compiled by Warrantywise.
This underlines the wisdom of intending buyers purchasing from an established Irish-based dealership or one across the water. The real danger arises with private deals, where buyers have little or no comeback should something go wrong.
Quite a number of reputable dealers here bring in imports and stand over them with warranties. You may have to pay a bit more but you do have backup.
That should also seriously reduce the likelihood of being landed with a dangerous write-off which, as we've seen, can account for onein-10 imports.
All of these warnings should go to show us that in the midst of an expected plentiful supply of used cars, there is always the danger of buyers falling victim to conmen.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               139 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 12:41 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: How to negotiate the pensions minefield in Brexit Britain; The vote to leave the EU has seen annuity rates fall sharply. But would-be retirees still have other options

BYLINE: Harriet Meyer

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 1497 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Margaret Lawson is relieved that she bought an annuity in April before the rates sank any further. It was an astute decision by the 66-year-old dairy farmer. Since the vote at the end of June that the UK should leave the European union, rates have dropped by 3.5%.
"I only had a small personal pension of around £16,000," she says. With this, she bought a Prudential annuity through investment adviser Hargreaves Lansdown, which pays her £75 a month. Lawson acknowledges that this is not a lot, but she is not relying on it alone to fund her retirement. "It will help towards basic bills," she says. 
Her husband Andrew will also buy an annuity with his personal pension pot when he reaches retirement. "However, we plan to continue working and producing an income from the farm," she says.
Like many people of their age, the Lawsons watched the Brexit vote closely, and the after-effects. While fears that billions would be wiped off pension funds after the surprise leave vote were unfounded, many people approaching retirement will not be reassured as they watch interest rates and rates on annuities sink to all-time lows.
But, fortunately, changes to pension rules introduced in April 2015 provide more freedom for retirees. In the past, most workers had to swap the pension pot they had built up for an annuity, which then paid out a monthly sum until death. Annuities, however, were regarded as poor value for money - particularly for those with life-threatening health issues - and the government did away with the requirement to buy one. 
Now, anyone over 55 can do what they like with their savings, including taking greater sums in cash, staying invested, or moving into buy-to-let. But it is a new freedom which may be intimidating for many people who are looking at what to do with their pension pots. "The choices can seem baffling - with difficult decisions to be made during uncertain times," says Richard Parkin, head of pensions at Fidelity International.
Here we consider some of the available options:
                   Staying invested                   
Known as "drawdown", this option enables savers to take an income from their pension. This may rely on corporate bonds paying fixed sums of interest, for example, or companies dishing out dividends.
 Related:  Don't panic - yet. The Brexit vote has had a surprise effect on pension funds
You take out only the sum you need and keep the remainder invested. This gives it a chance to grow and ride out any stock market volatility.
However, Jason Witcombe of Evolve Financial Planning, warns: "High withdrawal levels coupled with a fall in fund values can be an extremely toxic mix."
Investors should always stick to a diversified portfolio of funds, says Patrick Connolly from IFA Chase de Vere. "This way investors can ride out any periods of volatility and ensure their retirement plans remain on track."
                     Pros: Your money could continue to grow. Remaining funds can be passed on to beneficiaries free of inheritance tax.
                     Cons: Generating an income from shares, bonds and funds can be stressful during uncertain economic times. And your income is not guaranteed. If you live longer than expected, spend too much, or a stock market shock hits your fund, you could run out of money.
                   Cashing in                    
Those aged 55 and over are free to cash in their pension pot, but the majority will be subject to tax. You can take a 25% tax-free lump sum, with the tax for withdrawing the rest set at your personal rate.
"We see a lot of people taking tax-free cash just because they can," says Parkin. "The double risk here is that they take cash after a market fall, locking in losses, and hold this in cash where it has little prospect for growth."
                     Pro: You have the flexibility to do what you want with your money, rather than lock into low annuity rates.
                     Cons: You risk being bumped into a higher tax bracket if you make large withdrawals. You still need to decide how to generate an income with your money.
                   Investing in property                   
Some pensioners are more comfortable with assets they can see and understand, such as buy-to-let property. Once the mortgage is paid off, property may provide income in retirement.
However, Connolly says: "Property isn't a tax-efficient investment - and there are more changes on the way which means that those who own buy-to-let properties face bigger tax bills in the future."
                     Pros: A tangible asset that may produce an income, with the potential for capital appreciation.
                     Cons: Rental income could be slashed by mortgage costs, letting fees, periods when there are no tenants, and maintenance costs. And there is tax to pay on the income. If you need to sell, you may not manage to do this at the price you want, when you want.
                   Buying an annuity                   
An annuity is a product bought from insurers with all or part of your pension savings to deliver an income for life after retirement. 
If you have modest savings, you could buy some guaranteed income with an annuity to ensure you can always pay your bills, but rates have fallen.
On average, a £100,000 pot would have bought you an income of £7,060 a year at age 65 back in 2006. Today, the same pot would provide £4,770, according to figures from Retirement Advantage.
Shopping around for a better rate can substantially improve your monthly income for the rest of your life - and, remember, you receive a higher income if the provider thinks you'll die early. So-called "enhanced" annuities are for smokers and the obese.
                     Pros: A guaranteed income for life, giving peace of mind and some security. There is no further effort involved once it is bought.
                     Cons: Rates are currently poor. You risk locking into unattractive rates that won't give you the income you need. When you die, the income dies with you.
                   Pick and mix                   
You don't have to do one thing or the other; you can mix and match. This way you keep your options open and make changes as and when your circumstances change.
You could buy an annuity to meet the bills and leave the rest invested, taking lump sums as and when needed. Or you may start retirement doing drawdown, before buying an annuity at a later stage.
However, be warned that annuity rates are unlikely to improve any time soon.
                     Pros: Flexibility and access to lump sums as and when required. With some luck, growth of any remaining invested pension will help you cope with inflation over the years.
                     Cons: Working out the best mix and match approach can seem complicated. You may need to pay for ongoing financial advice.
                   Case study: 'We're worried what we'll get for our savings'                   
Since the outcome of the EU referendum, Lee Hyams has put his pension plans on ice. Hyams, 61, runs a fashion business with his partner Debra Isbitt, 54. They live in north-west London.
"I need my pension savings to work hard for me, but I am worried about this in the current climate," says Hyams. 
The couple have two personal pensions and cash Isas. They have dipped into their pension to withdraw some cash.
"We have accessed some of the tax-free lump sum, using this to pay off the mortgage," Hyams says. "The rules seem to be pretty flexible, but I am worried what I'm going to get in return for all my savings made over the years."
Retirement will not mean stopping working, however, as the couple will continue part-time to help make ends meet. 
"It seems prudent to keep all options open, and to take a mix and match approach including drawdown and annuities at a later stage," he says. 
The couple have consulted a financial adviser, and used the government's free guidance service Pension Wise.
                   Steps to take in planning for retirement                   
Ask for an up-to-date valuation on the size of your pension pot.
Do you have any final salary pensions? If so, contact the scheme administrator for the details.
Are there any old pensions you may have forgotten about? Use the government's pension tracing service to track them down.
Request a state pension forecast from the Department for Work and Pensions.
Consider tax efficiency. Do you have savings that could be placed in a tax-efficient environment?
What will your living expenses be in retirement? Draw up a budget to help calculate this. Fidelity.co.uk offers a retirement budgeting calculator.
Factor in any existing debts that need to be paid off.
Get advice. You can find independent financial advisers at unbiased.co.uk (0800 020 9430). You can also get free guidance from Pension Wise (0800 138 3944) and the Pensions Advisory Service (0300 123 1047).
For guidance on annuities and more, call or visit the websites of Hargreaves Lansdown (0117 980 9940) or Retirement Advantage (0800 032 7690).


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (75%); EUROPE (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               140 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Irish border will stay open after Brexit, leaders agree

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 228 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain and Ireland are agreed that there will be no return to a "hard border" between Northern Ireland and the Republic, Enda Kenny, the Taoiseach, insisted after talks at Downing Street.
Mr Kenny said that he and Theresa May were both against creating a post-Brexit string of customs posts across the island of Ireland.
"I do not favour, and would not agree to, a hard border with a whole range of customs posts, and neither does the prime minister," he said. "There will be no hard border from Dundalk to Derry in the context of it being a European border, and by that I mean customs posts every mile along the road."
Speaking earlier at a joint briefing with Mr Kenny, the prime minister said she was determined to maintain "the closest possible relationship" between the UK and the Republic after Britain's withdrawal from the EU.
Mrs May said there was a "strong will" to preserve free travel across the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic, and suggested that this could involve a common approach to the use of data on passengers arriving from outside the British Isles.
She said: "We benefited from a common travel area between the UK and the Republic of Ireland for many years before either country was a member of the EU. There is a strong will on both sides to preserve it and so we must focus on securing a deal that is in the interests of both of us."


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               141 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 5:27 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Japan responds to Brexit shock with record stimulus package; Prime minister Shinzo Abe announces biggest ever emergency budget with £200bn of as yet unspecified measures

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 516 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Japan's prime minister has responded to the shock of Brexit on the country's already struggling economy by announcing that his government will deliver an economic stimulus package worth more than 28 trillion yen (£200bn).
In the latest attempt to boost growth and steer the world's third largest economy away from deflation, Shinzo Abe promised a range of as yet unspecified tax and spending measures to lift the economy out of the doldrums.
Abe has admitted that Britain's decision to leave the EU last month threatens to have a negative impact on Japan because anxious investors have been buying large quantities of yen in an attempt to find a safe haven for their cash.
The rising Japanese currency risks choking off exports, leading to the continuation of a period slow growth and weak inflation that stretches back a quarter of a century.
Some analysts said the lack of any detail from Abe suggested that the package would prove to be less impressive than expected when the details are published next week.
Marcel Thieliant of Capital Economics said the emergency budget would be the biggest in Japan's history, dwarfing the support provided after the Asian financial crisis in 1998, the 2009 recession and the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, which killed almost 16,000 people and led to the meltdown of the Fukushima nuclear plant.
"The absence of a major crisis at the moment already raises some question marks on whether policymakers really will press ahead with such large amounts of spending", Thieliant said. Abe had hinted that the amount of additional public spending in the current financial year was going to be relatively small, he added.
Abe announced a so-called "three arrow strategy" for Japan - dubbed Abenomics - in December 2012, which included action by the Bank of Japan to increase the money supply and weaken the yen, tax cuts and public spending to boost growth, and structural reform.
Since taking the helm more than three years ago, Japan's central bank governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, has overseen a huge asset-buying plan that now stands at an unprecedented 80 trillion yen annually but has failed to lift inflation to the government's 2% target.
The latest intervention by the prime minister came as financial markets speculated that the Bank of Japan was running out of ammunition to stimulate growth and might be forced to resort to so-called "helicopter money"  - turning on the printing presses to pay for tax cuts or higher public spending. James Smith, an economist at ING bank, said Japan could be the first country to try this radical option.
Kuroda has publicly ruled out helicopter money, but is expected to come up with new initiatives for increasing the supply of credit when the Bank of Japan announces its latest policy decisions later this week.
 "Friday's Bank of Japan meeting will surely be a bigger driver for Japan's stock market and currency over the coming weeks, as it has been in the past," Thieliant said. "Today's announcement reduces the chances of further monetary stimulus being introduced this week, but we still think it more likely than not." 


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: TOHOKU, JAPAN (91%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               142 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: JLT chief remains upbeat on Brexit despite sector fears on passporting; Insurance

BYLINE: Oliver Ralph, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 426 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: JLT's chief executive has shrugged off fears about the impact of the UK's Brexit vote on his insurance brokerage business.
Dominic Burke , one of the few financial industry executives to publicly support leaving the EU before the UK referendum, said JLT was well placed to cope.
"Europe is still a small, single-digit part of our revenues," he said yesterday, adding that "we've learned to trade across the world . . . we can deal with regulations, tariffs and restrictions."
Many parts of London's insurance industry use passporting rights to access EU markets, and there have been fears that the loss of these rights would push business away from the UK.
Like others, JLT makes use of EU passporting. But it also has locally domiciled operations in other parts of the EU, including Ireland, Sweden, the Netherlands and France, which it could use instead.
"It is an issue, but it is an issue we're on top of," explained Mark Drummond Brady, JLT's deputy chief executive. "We have no anxieties about our ability to cope. We'll invest in skills and people as it becomes a requirement."
Both executives were speaking as JLT reported results for the first half of 2016. Although the fall in the value of sterling after the referendum provided a boost, underlying pre-tax profits fell 7 per cent to £89m.
That was partly due to investment in the US, where JLT has been growing its business in recent years. Revenues from the US more than doubled in the first half to £16m as the company attracted 200 new clients, but losses also increased.
"Our arrival in the US has given us a bigger, longer, broader runway of growth for our international business," said Mr Burke. Yesterday, the group announced an increase in overall spending plans for the US business, from $80m by 2017 to $100m by 2018.
Overall group performance in the half was also held back by JLT's UK employee benefits business, which advises corporate pension schemes. Profits there slipped from £7.1m to £0.2m, with Mr Burke blaming government pension reforms for cutting demand for JLT's services. A cost-cutting plan to save £14m a year is under way, with headcount down by 300 so far.
The company reported £34m of exceptional items in the period, most of which came from settling litigation with rival Willis over the hiring of a fine arts and jewellery team.
Earnings per share more than halved to 15.1p, but JLT still increased its dividend by 5 per cent to 11.6p.
Barrie Cornes, analyst at Panmure, said that the company had delivered a "solid" set of results, with underlying profits ahead of expectations.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (73%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               143 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Labour's serious problems don't include Brexit vote

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 289 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Jon Cruddas (" After Brexit, the Labour party peers over the edge ", July 25) says the vote for Brexit was an English working-class insurrection. As he writes from a Labour perspective, I presume he means traditional Labour voters voted for Brexit. While some of them may well have veered to the UK Independence party, which has spooked Labour every bit as much as it has the Conservatives, the fact is that 63 per cent of Labour voters voted to remain, as opposed to only 42 per cent of Conservatives. These figures come from Lord Ashcroft's eponymous polling organisation. And yet it is Jeremy Corbyn who is excoriated, by Mr Cruddas among others.
There may be other reasons to criticise Mr Corbyn but I'm inclined to believe the poll, and to disbelieve the media coverage that has cast the Brexit vote as a desire by the dispossessed to kick those immigrants who are so often accused of taking their jobs. Rather - and I write as a pro-European - I think the wheeling out by the Remain camp of people such as Sir Richard Branson and (by the Financial Times among others) of scores of business leaders was an own goal. While continuing involvement with the EU is, I believe, essential on an academic and cultural level, and with regard to human rights and environmental protection, protecting big business, especially in areas that have never recovered from the 2008 recession, does not resonate with the electorate.
The Labour party's problems are many and various, but I don't believe the Brexit vote is a serious one. It might now be thinking how best to undo the damage done to its constituents in places such as Sunderland by the falsehoods that were permitted during the referendum campaign.
Judith Martin
Winchester, Hants, UK


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: WINCHESTER, ENGLAND (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               144 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May under pressure to pull out of EU customs union in Brexit tussle;   Fox seeks freedom to forge trade deals   Withdrawal would threaten Anglo-Irish ties

BYLINE: George Parker and Kate Allen

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 480 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May is under pressure from trade secretary Liam Fox to pull out of the EU customs union, a move required to ease post-Brexit trade deals but which would impose costs on exporters and could strain Anglo-Irish relations.
The issue is looming as a key battleground in discussions over whether the UK will pursue a "hard" or "soft" Brexit. It will have to be resolved before London triggers Article 50, the starting gun for withdrawal negotiations with the EU.
The prime minister is expected to decide before the end of the year whether Britain should leave the customs union as part of her negotiating strategy. Dr Fox wants maximum freedom to negotiate new trade deals around the world and is determined that Britain should break out of the EU framework, which he believes has stifled such agreements. "We have nothing to fear from forging our own free-trade environment and breaking out on our own," he said yesterday in Chicago.
Under the customs union, the EU negotiates trade deals and sets the same external tariff for all members. Quitting would not preclude the UK remaining in the European single market. But the UK's hands would be tied in trade deals because Britain would need to keep the same external tariffs as the customs union, leaving no room to negotiate on tariffs and other administrative issues.
One government insider confirmed that Dr Fox wanted to leave the customs union, saying: "It's widely accepted that to be able to negotiate free trade deals we would have to be outside the customs union." Dr Fox said this week that final decisions had yet to be taken. His department declined to comment.
Mrs May and chancellor Philip Hammond need to be convinced that the advantages of pursuing an independent policy offset the downsides of leaving the customs union.
The Treasury has prepared an options paper for the cabinet setting out the pros and cons, with Mr Hammond said by aides to be "neutral on the issue at this stage". The Treasury warned before the EU referendum that leaving the customs union would add "significant" administrative costs to trade, laborious form-filling and delays at border posts. "UK-based firms would likely incur both time delays and costs," it said.
It warned goods crossing from Northern Ireland into the Republic could face "various forms of customs control and their liability to duty determined according to complex rules or origin".
Enda Kenny, Irish prime minister, urged Mrs May on a visit to London yesterday not to recreate a "hard border". "We are in agreement that we don't wish to see any return to the borders of the past on the island of Ireland," he said.
Turkey is the only major country not in the EU but a member of the union. It has to implement third country trade deals struck by Brussels. It then has to negotiate separately its own preferential access to the third country.
Fox aims page 2 Jim Gallagher page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               145 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Recruits are on the march to Mrs May's Tories; Thousands of voters, many who supported Remain, want to help shape the post-Brexit future

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION; COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 874 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May's sisterly advice to George Osborne as she sacked him was that if he wanted to lead the Conservative Party he ought to get to know it. A councillor for eight years, twice an unsuccessful parliamentary candidate, in three leaders' shadow cabinets holding six different briefs including party chairman, home secretary for six years, legendary consumer of rubber chicken - it is safe to say Mrs May knows her party.
At least until recently. What Tory agents describe as an "intense surge" in membership since the referendum has left the new prime minister, the former chancellor and all other Tory MPs a little less sure than they were about the nature of the Conservative rank and file.
Conservative HQ reckons that the national membership of about 150,000 has seen at least a 10 per cent uplift since the referendum. At first Andrew Kennedy, the agent for West Kent, was suspicious when his local associations reported a hundred applications a day. "Was this influx something organised by one of the left-wing pressure groups protesting about the EU vote? Or perhaps an exercise by jubilant Ukip supporters riding a post-referendum tidal wave and landing on our shore?" he asked on the ConservativeHome website.
Mr Kennedy set himself the task of finding out. Far from being returning Ukippers, four fifths had never before joined any party, and a narrow majority voted to remain in the EU. For the most part, according to one amazed Tory MP, they are "solid citizens who have taken the decision that politics can no longer be safely left to others and that they need to get involved". A quarter had mistakenly believed they would have a vote in the Tory leadership election and may drift away, but the rest appear to be fully committed.
While Corbynistas and their enemies trade ever more shrill abuse on social media - "the ends justify the memes" - thousands of recently engaged centrists, the sort of people that Labour once attracted, are choosing the Conservatives as the best way to make their voice heard.
It is not irrational, after all, to want to join the governing party if you want a say in the sort of Brexit that Britain will eventually choose. Some 40 per cent of the new members in West Kent said they signed up because, as Remain voters, they wanted to shape the future on the EU. And it is even less irrational if that party makes you feel welcome. Tory MPs are holding reception events for new members: Labour is sending them straight to "compliance".
For a while Labour moderates allowed themselves to believe that infuriated Remainers would help them to sweep out Jeremy Corbyn on a tide of outrage. Those hopes have faded as the bitter truth of the latest influx begins to dawn: initial sampling of the 140,000 new registered supporters suggests that at least 60 per cent back Corbyn. Labour may just have taken in another deep draught of the same medicine it swallowed last summer.
If the Kent findings reflect a national picture and the sampling is correct, Labour is being dragged further left by its new membership while the Tory recruits are more strongly anchoring their party in the centre ground.
Patrick McLoughlin, appointed party chairman by Theresa May to replace Lord Feldman of Elstree, certainly hopes so. Like Mrs May, Mr McLoughlin did the hard yards of councillor and failed candidate on his route to Westminster. His first email to members bluntly alerted them to the departure of David Cameron's Notting Hill set. "I've come from the coalmines of Cannock right up to the cabinet," he told www.them.No danger of a soya skinny latte frappé in his café.
The new chairman will be careful to pay Lord Feldman due regards - the peer may have been Mr Cameron's university buddy and tennis chum but he also paid off the party's debts and built a war chest that some believe is in excess of £50 million. It helped to pay for an election-winning machine that increased the number of Tory MPs from 198 when he took over to 330 when he left.
Yet Cameron and Feldman privately believe they achieved this despite, not because of, ordinary Tory party members. Their formula was simple: raise big bucks, pay top dollar. Sir Lynton Crosby and Jim Messina, two of the foreign consultants who delivered the 2015 election victory, don't come cheap. Faced with an ageing immobile activist base, largely unable or unwilling to carry out the sort of traditional doorstep work that used to win elections, Lord Feldman invested deeply in the best social media marketing experts that money could buy to deliver the message and get out the vote.
Given the mutual contempt between the professional centre of the party and the voluntary base out in the shires, it is not surprising that Tory membership more than halved between 2002 and 2013, or that many of those who remained were sullen and resentful.
Now, as he seeks to reset the relationship, Mr McLoughlin is considering handing back powers of policymaking to the rank and file. It would be a smart first step in persuading some of the Tories' new recruits to stick around.
Francis Elliott is political editor
Solid citizens have  ;  ;  decided politics can no  ;  ;  longer be left to others  ;
The party chairman  ;  ;  alerted members to the  ;  ;  Notting Hill departures ;


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               146 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 7:24 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: SABMiller puts AB InBev integration on hold to consider improved offer; AB InBev had upped offer for London-based brewer from £44 to £45 a share in light of pound's post-Brexit decline

BYLINE: Julia Kollewe

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 571 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: London-based brewer SABMiller has paused integration planning with Budweiser owner Anheuser-Busch InBev while it reviews its US suitor's improved takeover offer.
AB InBev, the world's largest brewing company, on Tuesday raised its offer for SABMiller to £45 a share from £44 announced in November. The revised offer, which AB InBev described as final, values the FTSE 100 firm at £79bn, up from £71bn.
The improved offer came after a sharp decline in the value of the pound since Britain's vote to leave the European Union in late June. Sterling has tumbled 13% against the dollar. 
                     The two companies agreed a deal in November after months of negotiations. Since then, they have been drawing up plans how to integrate the two businesses, in the areas of finance, IT and procurement. 
It is understood that work has been halted while SABMiller's board reviews the revised offer. The brewer's chairman, Jan du Plessis, has been clear that the board wants to listen to the views of shareholders before making a decision. 
The merger would create a brewing giant that supplies nearly a third of the world's beer and would be the biggest foreign takeover of a British company. SABMiller owns beer brands including Fosters, Miller Genuine Draft, Castle Lager and Pilsner Urquell; while AB InBev also makes Stella Artois, Corona, Beck's and Hoegaarden.
SABMiller confirmed that Du Plessis had a telephone conversation with his counterpart at AB InBev, Olivier Goudet, last Friday to discuss the terms agreed in November in light of the pound's tumble. There was no discussion or agreement about the revised offer, however. 
A number of activist shareholders, such as hedge funds Elliott Capital Advisors and The Children's Investment Fund, have been putting pressure on SABMiller to seek better terms.
                     AB InBev has also amended the terms of its share-and-cash alternative to appeal to SABMiller's two biggest shareholders, tobacco firm Altria and Bevco, controlled by Colombia's Santo Domingo family, which together own 40% of SAB. The cash element has been increased to £4.66 from £3.78. 
Aberdeen Asset Management, a major SABMiller shareholder, declared the new terms "unacceptable", arguing they both undervalued the company and continued to favour the company's two major shareholders. The cash-and-shares alternative is worth £51.14 to those willing to hold AB InBev shares for five years, but many investors cannot accept such lock-ups.
SABMiller has asked Centerview Partners to provide additional financial advice alongside its existing advisers. The brewer said on Tuesday: "The board will continue to consult with shareholders and will meet in due course formally to review, having regard to all facts and circumstances, the revised offer, and a further announcement will be made thereafter."
The deal still needs to be cleared by anti-trust regulators around the world. 
In April, AB InBev agreed to sell SABMiller brands Peroni and Grolsch to Japanese brewer Asahi for (EURO)2.55bn, along with London's Meantime brewery, to help ease regulatory concerns over the merger. The deal is dependent on the completion of the SABMiller takeover.
Asahi's offer includes the Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime brands, as well as SABMiller's Italian, Dutch and British operations that make and distribute the brands. It also includes the global rights to the Grolsch, Peroni and Meantime brands, except in the US.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               147 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Slow growth before Brexit vote expected

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 197 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The British economy is expected to show a slowdown in growth when official GDP figures are published today. Growth is forecast to have eased back to 0.3 per cent in the second quarter of this year, down from 0.4 per cent in the first quarter, as uncertainty grew before the EU referendum.
A series of reports showed a mixed picture for the UK economy before the Brexit vote. Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said that the first estimate for second-quarter GDP from the Office for National Statistics would indicate whether the economy had headed into the EU referendum from a position of strength.
He added: "[Today's] number therefore sets the scene for monetary and fiscal policy to come. In particular the question of whether the Bank of England will cut interest rates next week. The markets seem to think it will, they are currently pricing in a 95 per cent chance of a rate cut - though don't forget they got it badly wrong last time around."
The manufacturing industry delivered a better-than-expected fall of 0.5 per cent in May, ahead of a predicted slide of 1.1 per cent. Manufacturing output rose by 1.7 per cent in May compared with the same month in 2015.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               148 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 9:49 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Taylor Wimpey says it's business as usual after Brexit vote; Housebuilder's shares rise after confident statement that trading was normal for this time of the year

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 468 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Taylor Wimpey has shrugged off Britain's decision to leave the EU, saying that one month after the vote trading was normal for this time of year.
The housebuilder said on Wednesday that it was closely monitoring customer confidence, but in the short term at least it was business as usual.
Pete Redfern, Taylor Wimpey's chief executive, said: "While it is still too early to assess what long-term impact the EU referendum result will have on the UK housing market, there has been no meaningful change to date, with trading in the last month at a normal seasonal range. 
"Customer interest continues to be high, with a good level of visitors both to our developments and to our website."
The sentiments were echoed by challenger banks Shawbrook and Metro, which said there had been no change in customer behaviour since the 23 June referendum.
In the run-up to the vote, members of the remain camp warned the housing market was vulnerable to a shock if the UK voted to leave the EU because of weaker growth and dwindling consumer confidence. 
                     Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund, warned of a possible stock market and housing crash.                   
                     Shares in UK housebuilders fell sharply after the result, and while they have recovered some of the losses, prices remain below pre-referendum levels.
                     Taylor Wimpey was one of the FTSE 100's biggest risers on Wednesday following its confident statement, with shares up 4.2%. 
It said that immediately after the vote it had seen a small increase in the number of people cancelling plans to buy a new home but cancellation rates were now back to their previous low levels.
It said the government's help-to-buy scheme, competitive lending by mortgage providers and a shortage of homes in the UK were all helping to support the housing market.
Attempts by the government and Bank of England to boost confidence among households in the aftermath of the Brexit decision had also helped, the housebuilder said.
Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: "Taylor Wimpey isn't blinking in the face of Brexit, and its early indications show the referendum hasn't really dented business. 
"Confidence is a key part of the housing market, and so far this seems to be holding up well in the weeks following the EU vote."
Announcing results for the first half ending 3 July, Taylor Wimpey said sale completions were up 3% at 6,019 homes.
The average selling price increased 5.8% to £238,000, and underlying profits were up 12.1% at £266.6m. Taylor Wimpey's order book rose 7%, to 8,683 homes.
In another sign of confidence, Taylor Wimpey confirmed it would pay a special dividend of £300m - or 9.2p a share - in July 2017, as well as an interim dividend of 0.53p a share in October 2016.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               149 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: There is absolutely 'no upside to Brexit' for Ireland, warns agriculture minister

BYLINE: Ralph Riegel; Claire McCormack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 376 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: AGRICULTURE Minister Michael Creed has warned that there is "no upside to Brexit" for Ireland and said authorities must work to minimise the fallout for farmers and food exporters on both sides of the border.
Mr Creed stressed that the multi-billion-euro agri-food sector was a particular cause for concern; this is recognised both in Dublin and Belfast.
"The border is a particular difficulty for us; there is so much (agricultural) traffic over and across it," he said.
"(There are) 350,000 sheep that come south for slaughtering every year, there are about 10,000 pigs a week that go north for slaughter.
"In 2015 alone, 50,000-plus cattle went over the border. But probably the most complex (thing) of all is that we process milk from Northern Ireland in Leckpatrick and Lakeland Dairies in Co Monaghan."
Mr Creed said that such a large movement of milk raised major issues in the light of Brexit and EU labelling.
"When you mix milk from the queen's cows with Paddy's cows, what do get? Irish butter, sour cream or Irish milk? That is an issue because labelling is part of what we do."
The minister has already met with his northern counterpart, given the importance of the matters involved and the implications for farmers and food producers.
"We had done a lot of work in the department prior to the (Brexit) vote. I think the realisation is dawning, significantly in Northern Ireland now, about the challenges that they face."
Mr Creed added: "As I have said in the department and in the Government, there really is no upside to Brexit for Ireland."
Meanwhile, the IFA has argued that a three-year tax-deferral system would ease Brexit's impact upon volatile farm incomes.
This is one of a raft of short -term measures the IFA is calling for in its pre-Budget submission.
Its president Joe Healy highlighted the "huge pressure" that farming families face as cash flow tightens and the viability of their farms is put at risk.
"Brexit has created major uncertainty and immediate price challenges," he said.
The IFA proposes that in a year when farm incomes fall significantly, tax should be paid based on the actual income earned, rather than the average tax due arising from five years' income.
The deferral would be carried forward and paid over a threeyear period.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               150 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 6:07 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK bosses went on share-buying spree after EU referendum; Sectors hardest hit by news of Brexit - banks, housebuilders, retailers and travel companies - saw biggest director purchases

BYLINE: Julia Kollewe

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 375 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's top company bosses went on a share-buying spree in the immediate aftermath of the EU referendum, spending more money on their own stock than at any time in the last decade. 
Directors of FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companies have spent more than £18.5m buying shares in their own firms since the 23 June vote, according to data compiled for FT Money by the broker Olivetree Financial. "This is the largest amount of individual director buys in at least 10 years," Olivetree said.
The sectors that were hardest hit by the news of Brexit - banks, housebuilders, retailers and travel companies - saw the biggest director purchases. 
Many boardroom directors have done well out of these deals as stock markets bounced back following days of dramatic falls when tens of billions of pounds were wiped off the London stock market.
The biggest share buys came in late June and early July. The largest individual transaction in the FTSE 100 was made by Hikma Pharmaceuticals' founding Darwazah family, which bought £3.3m of shares in the Jordan-based drugmaker the day after the Brexit vote.
In the second-largest dealing, Tony Pidgley, the chairman of the London-focused housebuilder Berkeley Group, snapped up nearly £800,000 of shares on 27 June and has seen them go up in value by 15% since then.
Lloyds Banking Group saw the most deals, as 21 directors bought shares worth more than £750,000. The doorstep lender Provident Financial was in second place, with seven directors buying nearly £1.5m of stock, followed by Vodafone, where five directors snapped up £1.4m of shares.
The data shows that 69 directors from 23 FTSE 100 companies bought their own stock, a total of £10.5m. Eighteen were top level bosses such as chief executives, chairmen and chief financial officers, who bought 37% of the total amount.
On the FTSE 250, 108 directors from 63 companies bought shares in their own businesses. Just over half the total amount of £8m was bought by 39 top-level executives and the rest by other board directors.
Four FTSE 100 companies have seen big share sales by directors - the paper supplier Mondi, National Grid, the brewer SABMiller and United Utilities. Two other firms - the bottling firm Coca-Cola Hellenic and Vodafone - have seen both buys and sells.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               151 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday 11:40 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK economy grew by 0.6% before Brexit vote; Chancellor Philip Hammond said that the UK enters negotiations about leaving the EU 'from a position of economic strength'

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 735 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's economy grew by a faster than expected 0.6% in the second quarter as businesses appeared to shrug off Brexit jitters in the runup to the 23 June referendum.
Growth between April and June was stronger than the 0.4% achieved in the first quarter, boosted by the best performance from the industrial sector in almost 17 years according to the Office for National Statistics.
Economists were forecasting weaker growth of 0.4% in the second quarter. They warned however this was likely to be as good as it gets for the UK economy, with a sharp slowdown predicted in the coming months.
 Related:  UK economic growth accelerated to 0.6% before Brexit vote - live updates
Joe Grice, chief economist at the ONS, said there was little evidence that concern about a possible Brexit vote had a negative impact on the economy before the referendum.
"Continued strong growth across services, particularly in retailing, reinforced by healthy growth in the manufacture of cars and pharmaceuticals, boosted output in the second quarter.
"Any uncertainties in the runup to the referendum seem to have had a limited effect. Very few respondents to ONS surveys cited such uncertainties as negatively impacting their businesses." 
The chancellor Philip Hammond said the latest official snapshot of the UK economy showed that it was fundamentally strong, adding he was ready to take action to support the economy following the Brexit vote.
"It is clear we enter our negotiations to leave the EU from a position of economic strength," he said in a statement. 
"Those negotiations will signal the beginning of a period of adjustment, but I am confident we have the tools to manage the challenges ahead, and along with the Bank of England, this government will take whatever action is necessary to support our economy and maintain business and consumer confidence."
 Britain is open for business - as we enter a period of adjustment, I'm confident we have the tools to manage the challenges ahead #GDP - Philip Hammond (@PHammondMP) July 27, 2016
Economists warned that growth would be lower in the coming months, with some predicting contraction in the third quarter.
Martin Beck, senior economic advisor to the EY Item Club, said the numbers represented "one last hurrah" for the economy before it entered a weaker and more turbulent period.
The data showed the economy was performing better in the earlier part of the second quarter than the latter part. At the time of the first estimate of gross domestic product, the ONS has less than half the data content that it will ultimately rely on for the final estimate. As a result, the numbers it gives for June are a forecast and subject to revision.
Beck said: "The monthly figures point to a significant loss of momentum through the quarter which means that the launchpad for the third quarter was already soft, even before we factor in any Brexit effects.
"The lack of momentum as the economy entered Q3 means that the chances of a negative reading for the current quarter are relatively high."
                     The Bank of England warned before the referendum a Brexit vote could trigger a technical recession, defined by two consecutive quarters of negative growth. 
It has hinted that it will unveil a package of measures designed to boost confidence among households and businesses as the UK faces a period of prolonged uncertainty following the vote. 
                     The Bank's monetary policy committee is expected next week to cut interest rates to a new all-time low of 0.25%, from 0.5%, having disappointed expectations of a rate cut at its July policy meeting.
A breakdown of the second-quarter GDP figures showed that industrial production jumped by 2.1% - the strongest growth since the third quarter of 1999 - following a 0.2% contraction in the first quarter. The manufacturing sector was the biggest driver of rise, with output rising 1.8% over the quarter.
Output in the services sector, which accounts for more than three quarters of the economy, increased by 0.5%, while construction fell by 0.4%.
Annual growth accelerated to 2.2% in the second quarter, from 2% in the first.
                     Frances O'Grady, TUC general secretary, said: "It's good news that growth strengthened in the last quarter before the referendum. The priority now is protecting growth from the fall in business confidence, and the risks to future investment, following the Brexit vote."


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               152 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ukip hopeful vows to stand in way of a Brexit fudge

BYLINE: Lucy Fisher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 344 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Steven Woolfe, the bookmakers' favourite in the Ukip leadership contest, set out his red lines for Brexit in his first big rally of the campaign last night.
The North West MEP and Ukip spokesman on immigration warned that under his leadership the party would "not tolerate a fudged deal like a seven-year brake" on inward migration.
Speaking in Manchester, he said: "The people voted for the UK to leave the single market, control its own borders, sign a free trade deal with Europe and take back control of its fishing waters."
The former barrister expressed confidence in the three Conservative cabinet ministers leading the Brexit negotiations and called for them to be given time to "do the job".
Outlining his vision for the party, he said Ukip should tilt towards Labour's traditional heartlands in the north. He also called for a "grammar school revolution in our country - starting in 50 of the poorest boroughs" to boost social mobility and the "British dream".
Mr Woolfe has won the private backing of Nigel Farage, the former leader, and his team, party insiders have said.
The bookmakers' second favourite in the race is Lisa Duffy, a little-known councillor who won the endorsement yesterday of Suzanne Evans, the party's parliamentary spokeswoman who has been banned from standing because she is suspended from the party.
Ms Duffy is viewed within Ukip as a tough and practical organiser after she took the helm to set up local campaign infrastructure in parliamentary byelections in 2014. She is expected to launch her campaign tomorrow.
Jonathan Arnott, a North East MEP, has also thrown his hat into the ring and Peter Whittle, the Ukip candidate in the London mayoral election in May, said he was considering running.
Douglas Carswell, Ukip's single MP, and Paul Nuttall, its deputy leader, are among the more public-facing party figures who have ruled themselves out of the contest.
Nominations will close on July 31, after which hustings will be held throughout August. Ballot papers will be issued on September 1 and the victor announced on September 15.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               153 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 27, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: We won't talk about trade until after Brexit, says US

BYLINE: Oliver Wright

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The US has rebuffed attempts by Liam Fox to open negotiations on a free trade deal, saying that "meaningful" talks before Brexit were impossible.
Dr Fox, the international trade secretary, who is on a three-day charm offensive in the US, later had comments he made on a possible trading agreement with the EU "clarified" by No 10.
Mike Froman, the US trade representative, said that Washington would only be prepared to talk to Britain about a trade deal "at the appropriate time".
"As a practical matter, it is not possible to meaningfully advance trade and investment negotiations with the UK until some of the basic issues around the future EU-UK relationship have been worked out," he said.
Penny Pritzker, the secretary of commerce, said that negotiating the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (TTIP) between the EU and the US "remains the top priority in terms of engagement with Europe on trade".
Dr Fox said that he expected the issue of Britain's relations with the EU to be resolved by 2020. He added that the government would probably seek to enter a free-trade agreement with the EU rather than a closer "customs union".
Downing Street later clarified his comments, saying that no decision had been made on whether Britain would seek to join the EU customs union.
Not being part of it after Brexit would mean that all UK goods entering the EU would be subject to border restrictions and checks - potentially crippling trade between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.
For consumers, it could mean the reintroduction of duty-free limits on alcohol and other products brought into Britain from Europe.
However, if the UK remained as part of a customs union it would restrict the ability to strike free trade deals as Britain would have to agree to common EU financial tariffs on goods imported from outside the union.
Some figures in government are understood to be in favour of seeking to continue with the customs union while others, such as Dr Fox, are opposed to such a deal.
The government has had mixed success in its diplomatic mission on trade. Malcolm Turnbull, the Australian prime minister, told Theresa May that he wanted to sign a deal with Britain "as soon as possible".
However, Canada corrected Dr Fox after he suggested that "very fruitful" bilateral trade talks with Ottawa had begun. Chrystia Freeland, the Canadian international trade minister, said that the talks were "positive" but they were largely about Canada's deal with the EU as a whole.
Speaking in Washington, Dr Fox appeared to tone down his earlier optimistic rhetoric on trade, saying that "we cannot negotiate any new trade deals as long as we are part of the EU, which we will be for probably the next two years, with an exit in early 2019".
He added: "Of course we want to have discussions and to scope out any possible deals that we might want to do immediately after that."
Roger Boyes, page 23 Letters, page 26


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (51%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               154 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday 1:13 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK wages fall, pensions in Brexit Britain, and penthouses for sale; Plus rents fall as Brexit makes landlords nervous, the secrets of a happy business and sexual harassment at work

BYLINE: Shane Hickey

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 298 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Hello and welcome to this week's Money Talks - a roundup of the week's biggest stories and some things you may have missed.
                   Money news                   
                     UK joins Greece at bottom of wage growth league                   
                     Let people take state pension early or they'll risk losing it, says thinktank                   
                     Rents falls as landlords remain nervous over Brexit                   
                     The secrets of a happy business                   
                     The bank accounts paying savers a pittance                   
                     Sexual harassment at work: more than half of claims in US result in no change                   
                   Feature                   
                     How to negotiate the pensions minefield in Brexit Britain                   
                   In pictures                   
                     A room with a view: penthouses                   
                   In the spotlight                   
After Brexit sent sterling diving, and with the school holidays starting, we look at what cards you should use abroad and where to get cash. 
                   Consumer champions                   
                     My 'two for one' tickets brought double trouble                   
                     I cancelled my gym membership - or so I thought. Now Virgin Active wants £1,200                   
                     I bought three Halford bikes, but they are too dangerous for my children to ride                   
                   Money deals                   
Quote Summer10 and save 10% on Guardian travel insurance. Get a quote now. 
Save 10% with Guardian home insurance. Get a 60 second quote on cover provided by Uinsure.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               155 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Are the experts talking us into recession?; The latest GDP data are strong but failed to shift post-Brexit gloom that endangers the economy, Philip Aldrick writes

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 36,37

LENGTH: 807 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For an ephemeral feeling, confidence is awfully powerful. Worried households don't spend and pessimistic companies don't invest. If everyone is sitting on their hands, growth vanishes. As such, confidence has a very real impact on economic performance.
Brexit has come as a shock but there are fears that the UK could talk itself into deeper trouble. Yesterday's secondquarter growth was a forecast-busting 0.6 per cent, but did not lift the leaden mood. For Martin Beck, senior economic adviser to the EY Item Club, it was "one last hurrah for the economy".
Few dispute that the economy will be hit as a result of the vote. The issue is the scale of the damage and how quickly growth will bounce back. "If people stop spending and firms stop hiring because confidence evaporates, it all becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy," Alan Clarke, UK economist at Scotiabank, warned.
At the Institute for Economic Affairs, Ryan Bourne, head of public policy, is worried that people are letting sentiment override sense. "I think there has been a lot of emotional reaction to the result. While bosses may be seeing their own companies doing OK, they may be being swayed by the broader reaction because it came as a surprise," he said.
Mr Bourne said evidence of the "disconnect" could be seen in July's CBI industrial trends survey, which showed business confidence collapsing to a seven-year low but orders holding up.
There has been a stack of evidence that it's "business as usual", as the Bank of England has observed. In the past fortnight alone, GlaxoSmithKline has unveiled a £275 million investment, McDonald's has said it will create an extra 5,000 UK jobs, the investment bank Wells Fargo has struck a £300 million deal to buy a new European headquarters in London, the French utility group Veolia has promised to invest £750 million in the UK and a Chinese construction company has committed to spending £220 million in Sheffield.
In the markets, the FTSE 100 is 6 per cent above its pre-referendum peak and the UK-focused FTSE 250 has made up all the ground lost since the vote. Japan's SoftBank has launched a £24 billion bid for Arm Holdings and gilt prices have spiked as investors continue to rate the UK a safe haven.
The worst pre-referendum fears have not materialised and the International Monetary Fund has said that its doomsday scenarios "have become less likely ... as financial markets have stabilised". Its central case is for growth to slow but for the UK still to expand faster than both France and Germany and a recession to be avoided.
Strong second-quarter growth also showed the doomsayers to be wrong. There had been fears that uncertainty ahead of the June 23 vote would stall the economy, Mr Clarke said. "In the event, growth accelerated. We can only hope that the fear of post-vote jitters has also been overblown."
Yesterday's GDP data was not all rosy. Momentum tailed off after beginning in April with a bang. The powerhouse services sector has slowed for six months now and the strong reading was helped by the best performance in the production sector in 17 years, which is unlikely to recur. Consumer confidence has taken a jolt and the July "flash" purchasing managers index pointed to the economy shrinking 0.4 per cent in the three months to September.
Talking down the UK could become "self-reinforcing", Mr Bourne said, damaging Britain's already troubled regions.
Cities that voted to leave such as Sunderland, Derby and Hull are likely to see growth collapse.
Oliver Kamm, page 39
Talking down the economy
BEFORE THE REFERENDUM
"There's a range of possible scenarios around those directions, which could possibly include a technical recession - could possibly include that"
Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England
"With exactly one month to go to the referendum, the British people must ask themselves this question: can we knowingly vote for a recession? Does Britain really want this DIY recession?"
George Osborne, chancellor
YESTERDAY
"GDP growth in the second quarter looks likely to represent one last hurrah for the economy before it enters a softer and more turbulent period"
Martin Beck, senior economic adviser to the EY Item Club
"While this is generally good news, it is highly likely that the economy has slowed dramatically since the EU referendum"
Azad Zangana, senior European economist, Schroders
"The strongest growth we will see for some time?"
Chris Hare, economist, Investec
"The preliminary estimate printed at 0.6 per cent, marginally ahead of the consensus expectations. Looking forward, as a result of the Brexit vote, we expect the UK economy to imminently enter a shallow and prolonged recession"
Andrzej Szczepaniak, economist, Barclays
"As the majority of the data cover the period before the EU referendum, today's release is likely to prove little more than a statistical curiosity"
Fathom Consulting
Graphic
The dangers of a downturn


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (77%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               156 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Are the experts talking us into recession?; The latest GDP data are strong but failed to shift post-Brexit gloom that endangers the economy, Philip Aldrick writes

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38,39

LENGTH: 811 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For an ephemeral feeling, confidence is awfully powerful. Worried households don't spend and pessimistic companies don't invest. If everyone is sitting on their hands, growth vanishes. As such, confidence has a very real impact on economic performance. Brexit has come as a shock but there are fears that the UK could talk itself into deeper trouble. Yesterday's secondquarter growth was a forecast-busting 0.6 per cent, but did not lift the leaden mood. For Martin Beck, senior economic adviser to the EY Item Club, it was "one last hurrah for the economy".
Few dispute that the economy will be hit as a result of the vote. The issue is the scale of the damage and how quickly growth will bounce back. "If people stop spending and firms stop hiring because confidence evaporates, it all becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy," Alan Clarke, UK economist at Scotiabank, warned.
At the Institute for Economic Affairs, Ryan Bourne, head of public policy, is worried that people are letting sentiment override sense. "I think there has been a lot of emotional reaction to the result. While bosses may be seeing their own companies doing OK, they may be being swayed by the broader reaction because it came as a surprise," he said.
Mr Bourne said evidence of the "disconnect" could be seen in July's CBI industrial trends survey, which showed business confidence collapsing to a seven-year low but orders holding up.
There has been a stack of evidence that it's "business as usual", as the Bank of England has observed. In the past fortnight alone, GlaxoSmithKline has unveiled a £275 million investment, McDonald's has said it will create an extra 5,000 UK jobs, the investment bank Wells Fargo has struck a £300 million deal to buy a new European headquarters in London, the French utility group Veolia has promised to invest £750 million in the UK and a Chinese construction company has committed to spending £220 million in Sheffield.
In the markets, the FTSE 100 is 6 per cent above its pre-referendum peak and the UK-focused FTSE 250 has made up all the ground lost since the vote. Japan's SoftBank has launched a £24 billion bid for Arm Holdings and gilt prices have spiked as investors continue to rate the UK a safe haven. The worst pre-referendum fears have not materialised and the International Monetary Fund has said that its doomsday scenarios "have become less likely ... as financial markets have stabilised". Its central case is for growth to slow but for the UK still to expand faster than both France and Germany and a recession to be avoided.
Strong second-quarter growth also showed the doomsayers to be wrong. There had been fears that uncertainty ahead of the June 23 vote would stall the economy, Mr Clarke said. "In the event, growth accelerated. We can only hope that the fear of post-vote jitters has also been overblown."
Yesterday's GDP data was not all rosy. Momentum tailed off after beginning in April with a bang. The powerhouse services sector has slowed for six months now and the strong reading was helped by the best performance in the production sector in 17 years, which is unlikely to recur. Consumer confidence has taken a jolt and the July "flash" purchasing managers index pointed to the economy shrinking 0.4 per cent in the three months to September.
Talking down the UK could become "self-reinforcing", Mr Bourne said, damaging Britain's already troubled regions. Cities that voted to leave such as Sunderland, Derby and Hull are likely to see growth collapse.
Oliver Kamm, page 41 Talking down the economy BEFORE THE REFERENDUM "There's a range of possible scenarios around those directions, which could possibly include a technical recession - could possibly include that" Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England "With exactly one month to go to the referendum, the British people must ask themselves this question: can we knowingly vote for a recession? Does Britain really want this DIY recession?" George Osborne, chancellor YESTERDAY "GDP growth in the second quarter looks likely to represent one last hurrah for the economy before it enters a softer and more turbulent period" Martin Beck, senior economic adviser to the EY Item Club "While this is generally good news, it is highly likely that the economy has slowed dramatically since the EU referendum" Azad Zangana, senior European economist, Schroders "The strongest growth we will see for some time?" Chris Hare, economist, Investec "The preliminary estimate printed at 0.6 per cent, marginally ahead of the consensus expectations. Looking forward, as a result of the Brexit vote, we expect the UK economy to imminently enter a shallow and prolonged recession" Andrzej Szczepaniak, economist, Barclays "As the majority of the data cover the period before the EU referendum, today's release is likely to prove little more than a statistical curiosity" Fathom Consulting
Graphic
The dangers of a downturn


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (77%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               157 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and ideology

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 190 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Melanie Phillips (July 26) repeats an argument much beloved of Brexiteers, namely that the UK, or whatever might be left of it, will be able to dictate terms to the EU because "its member states need us more than we need them. They sell more to us than we do to them". This assumes that when the final decision on the terms of Britain's association with the EU is made, the ultimate deciding consideration will be economic or commercial. It won't. What will decide the issue is European political ideology. Much as the leaders of the EU value trade with the UK they will sacrifice it to the preservation of their European ideals. In these circumstances the UK's commercial muscle will be of little use. richard crampton Professor of East European History, University of Oxford, 1996-2006 Sir, According to Melanie Phillips, "Remainers think of themselves as European rather than British". No they don't. Remainers, of whom I am one, think of themselves as European and British. I also think of myself as Scottish, and a Londoner, among other things. Most people are perfectly comfortable with multiple identities. graham finnie Sidcup, Kent


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               158 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit Britain needs a healthy dose of stimulus

BYLINE: Chris Giles on Economics

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Is Britain's economy sliding into recession? The short answer is that no one knows. Uncertainty, however, is no excuse for ducking important decisions and the Bank of England must decide what to do about Brexit next week.
The starting point is a UK economy growing faster than expected in the second quarter, at 0.6 per cent. With global growth rates also improved and financial markets shrugging off the initial shock of the Brexit vote, fears of a catastrophic global crisis can be banished. A stronger global economy will naturally help but also means Britain cannot credibly threaten to bring down the EU if European politicians reject the UK government's Brexit wish list.
Hard facts regarding the post-referendum UK economy are scarce. Retail appears only a little subdued , tax revenues remain weak and the picture for property sales looks bleaker in central London than the rest of the country. More abundant surveys of households and companies have been dire, whether they have sought to measure attitudes to Brexit or early indications of output, orders and exports. The surveys point to a recession but they are sometimes a false friend to economists.
Against this backdrop the BoE's Monetary Policy Committee has to decide whether to seek an economic stimulus to keep inflation as close as possible to the 2 per cent medium-term target and output as close as possible to sustainable levels. One response, suggested by the MPC's Kristin Forbes, is to follow the British edict from the second world war to "keep calm and carry on". But the evidence of a significant confidence shock, which threatens to lower corporate investment and raise household saving rates, argues more persuasively for a monetary stimulus to limit any preventable economic damage.
The risks of too much stimulus generating too rapid growth and inflation are minor relative to those of standing by as the economy slides. With the risks involved, it is better to act decisively or, as Andy Haldane , BoE chief economist, puts it, "to run the risk of using a sledgehammer to crack a nut".
With the BoE reluctant to set a negative interest rate , it cannot cut its policy rate more than 0.5 percentage points; the right action involves a package comprising a rate cut, restarting quantitative easing and expanding the Funding for Lending Scheme.
Clear communication of the economic situation and policy intentions should help prevent an impression of panic at the central bank, even though everyone knows there are many legitimate questions about the effectiveness of these monetary tools. In any case, monetary policy works on output and inflation with a delay, so action on August 4, when the MPC next meets, will struggle to prevent a downturn which was already on the cards. Companies take time to reverse mothballed investments.
The other imperative for action cannot be spoken by the bank's officials. The BoE must be seen to act decisively to cover its back. The institution needs a defence against possible accusations from Brexiters that it was seeking the downturn it had predicted before the referendum. Such a course from the MPC is likely to bridge the policy gap between now and November when the government will decide whether there is a need for additional fiscal stimulus.
No one should be under any illusions that monetary or fiscal stimulus solves Britain's Brexit challenge. All the most serious threats to prosperity come in the longer term through redundant investment linked to Britain's membership of the EU, lost skills from more restrictive migration policies, weaker competition and a more inward looking and backward attitude. Necessary as they are, monetary or fiscal policies cannot boost the UK economy's supply capacity.
Brexit is likely to hurt and the BoE can offer only an anaesthetic for the pain.
chris.giles@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               159 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit chaos?

BYLINE: Edward Fennell

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 158 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Agonised. Or perhaps agonised and paralysed. That was the tone of the final big Brexit event of the season last week in a packed Inner Temple Hall. "No one wants to leave in chaotic conditions," declared Dominic Grieve, QC, as that prospect increasingly took over the mood in the room. All the old uncertainties were rehashed but more added on top, including the conflicting demands of transparency, confidentiality and accountability once negotiations get under way. Plus the tantalisingly simple question: "Once we've given notice under Article 50, can we revoke it?" Answers - yes, no, maybe. "We've backed ourselves into a very dark place and don't know how to navigate our way out," Professor Jo Shaw said. Or put another way by Richard Gordon, QC: "In the old days 'we knew where we were'. Now, it seems 'we are where we are'. If I hear that phrase again I think I'll go mad." I knew how he felt. But at least I know where I'm going. On holiday.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               160 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit insurance offers peace of mind to expat executives fearing border blues

BYLINE: Oliver Ralph, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 384 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: European executives in the UK, and their EU-based British counterparts, who are worried about their fate when the country leaves the bloc are being offered "Brexit insurance".
AIG, the US-based insurer, will this week launch an add-on to its Directors & Officers liability coverage that will include various costs associated with Brexit to its insurance.
The new terms include help for EU nationals wanting to become permanent residents in the UK. If their applications are rejected, AIG will cover the costs of a legal challenge. It will also cover the legal costs of a challenge to a repatriation order and, if unsuccessful, will also pay for repatriation costs.
The cover will apply the same way to UK nationals living in the EU. "While the outcome of the discussions between the UK and the EU are unknown, this addition to existing cover, which will be implemented at no additional cost, will give our clients peace of mind during a period of potential change," said Anthony Baldwin, chief executive of AIG's UK and European businesses.
The post-Brexit status of EU nationals living in the UK is still unclear .
During her campaign for leadership of the Conservative party, Theresa May initially said EU citizens would be "part of the negotiation" on Brexit, although she later softened her stance.
Foreign secretary Philip Hammond this month called for a quick resolution to questions over what will happen to EU citizens living in the UK and British citizens living in the EU.
Nevertheless, AIG said some EU expats were already seeking permanent residency in the UK so they could continue to live in the country, regardless of the outcome of talks between Brussels and Westminster.
Since the referendum, the industry has been trying to work out how to contain potential damage that Brexit could cause. Across the City, insurers and their lawyers are studying which legal structures will allow them to continue serving European clients from London.
Increasingly, though, the industry is also seeking to turn the risks that Brexit poses into a business opportunity.
"It generates complexity . . . and as a broker it is our role to support [clients] in this," said Nicolas Aubert, head of broker Willis Towers Watson's UK business at an event organised by trade publication Insurance Day this week.
Lombard page 18


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               161 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit jobs boost; IN THE NEWS

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 29 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit jobs boost Major investment plans by GlaxoSmithKline, McDonald's and London City airport will create thousands of jobs, providing a post-Brexit boost to the economy. Page 4


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               162 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit jobs boost; IN THE NEWS

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 25 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Major investment plans by GlaxoSmithKline, McDonald's and London City airport will create thousands of jobs, providing a post-Brexit boost to the economy.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               163 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit negotiator receives frosty British welcome; Departure plans

BYLINE: Alex Barker in Brussels and Patrick Jenkins in London

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 674 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain has reacted frostily to the naming of Michel Barnier , the former French foreign minister and scourge of the City of London, as the European Commission's chief Brexit negotiator.
The surprise nomination places an architect of Europe's post-crisis financial regulation at the helm of the technical talks for Britain to leave the EU. Jean-Claude Juncker, the commission president, said he wanted an "experienced politician for this difficult job".
The UK government's cool response to the decision reflected heightened concerns that the commission will be an awkward negotiating partner. An official statement did not mention the Frenchman by name and was drafted to suggest the commission was the least important of three interlocutors in the Brexit talks.
"We look forward to working with representatives from the member states, the council and the commission to ensure an orderly departure of the UK from the EU," a UK spokesman said.
Some City financiers were even more scathing about the appointment. One chairman said: "My initial reaction was 'Oh, God.' It's clearly provocative."
"I can't see how it could be worse," said another senior banking industry figure, who has worked in Brussels. "It's incredibly provocative. This is Juncker's revenge on Britain."
Mr Barnier has always insisted he went to great lengths to avoid alienating Britain or the City when he was the EU's single market commissioner from 2009 to 2014. But his interventionist instincts and Gaullist style at times made him the nemesis of the UK Treasury. Britain was outvoted for the first time on a big EU financial services law in 2013 when it objected to a revamp of bank capital rules.
While the leaders of Germany, France and other EU member states are determined to maintain a grip on the course of Brexit negotiations, the commission's technical expertise will be invaluable during the complex talks. The precise balance of responsibilities in the negotiations has yet to be set.
Mr Barnier will oversee a commission task force rather than a department, and be advised by the officials most relevant to the Brexit talks. His role will be to prepare for formal exit talks under Article 50 of the EU treaty and conduct negotiations once the process is triggered. He will report to Mr Juncker.
His experience spans the range of European politics: he was France's minister of agriculture and then foreign affairs as well as a member of the European Parliament. He also served two stints as an EU commissioner, covering regional policy spending and then the single market amid a torrent of post-crisis financial regulation.
Mr Barnier issued 40-odd proposals on financial services that rewrote Europe's rule book for banks, markets and insurance, as well as building a banking union for the eurozone. Although many in London remember him for imposing a cap on banker bonuses , this was an idea born in the European Parliament that Mr Barnier later championed.
In a valedictory interview as EU commissioner with the Financial Times, Mr Barnier spoke of "unfair and unjust" headlines at the time of his appointment that described him as the "most dangerous man in Europe".
Towards the end of his five-year term in 2014, Mr Barnier's relations with London were on a more even keel - looking back, he recalled "good spirited" tussles with George Osborne, then chancellor.
But Nick Clegg, the former deputy prime minister, said Mr Barnier was "no friend of the City of London" and that "alarm bells will be ringing".
Theresa May, prime minister, said yesterday she had an open mind about Britain's future ties with the EU, adding that the UK might not copy any of the existing relationships between non-EU countries and the bloc.
"I'm looking at this with an open mind," Mrs May said. "I think we should be developing the model that suits the United Kingdom and the European Union, not adopting, necessarily, a model that is on the shelf already," she added in Rome after meeting Italian prime minister Matteo Renzi.  Additional reporting by George Parker
Editorial Comment page 8


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); FR France; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               164 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: British economy begins to show signs of post-Brexit slowdown; Signs of retrenchment in construction industry, car factories and high street stores overshadow stronger than expected 0.6% expansion in run-up to vote

BYLINE: Larry Elliott and Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1163 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Fears that the British economy has been knocked off course by the Brexit vote have been reinforced by signs of retrenchment across key industries, according to fresh reports.
The first health checks of important sectors since Britain voted to leave the European Union overshadowed growth figures, showing a stronger-than-expected performance by the UK in the run-up to the referendum. 
 Related:  UK growth will slow down markedly, despite upbeat GDP figures
An expansion of 0.6% in the British economy between April and June was countered by signals from the construction industry, car factories and high street stores that provide the Bank of England with justification for moving to boost growth when its interest rate-setting committee meets next week.
The City was braced for action - from the Bank and the Treasury - to head off the threat of recession after Thursday's report. The chancellor, Philip Hammond, made it clear that there would be no repeat of the second quarter GDP growth in the months following Brexit.
Hammond said the UK would at least enter divorce negotiations with the EU from a position of strength after the Office for National Statistics said the best quarterly performance by industry since 1999 had pushed up overall economic growth from 0.4% in the first three months of 2016.
However, Hammond indicated a slowdown was imminent. "Those negotiations will signal the beginning of a period of adjustment, but I am confident we have the tools to manage the challenges ahead, and along with the Bank of England, this government will take whatever action is necessary to support our economy and maintain business and consumer confidence," he said.
Sterling dropped on the foreign exchanges, despite the growth figures, amid speculation of a package of measures from the Bank's monetary policy committee on 4 August that might include a cut in the cost of borrowing, a resumption of the quantitative easing money creation programme and incentives to boost lending to households and businesses.
The Bank has been weighing up what little evidence there has been of the state of the economy in the five weeks since the referendum.
In the latest batch of surveys released on Thursday, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders said its members were gloomy about the prospects for growth, jobs and investment; the British Retail Consortium said jobs were being shed in the months leading up to the referendum; and RICS - the body that represents chartered surveyors - said workloads for construction had weakened.
The SMMT gave an upbeat assessment of the industry's performance in the run-up to the referendum, with almost 900,000 cars rolling off production lines at UK factories in the first six months of the year. This was 13% more than the same period in 2015 and the best half-yearly performance since 2000. Almost 80% of the cars built in UK factories in the first half of 2016 were destined for other countries, with the EU the biggest market.
 Related:  UK economy grew by 0.6% before Brexit vote
However, the SMMT's chief executive, Mike Hawes, said the outlook for UK car manufacturing was uncertain now that Britain had opted to pursue a future outside the EU.
"The latest increase in production output is the result of investment decisions made over a number of years, well before the referendum was even a prospect," he said. 
Warning that this success was linked to membership of the single market, he said: "These decisions were based on many factors but primarily on tariff-free access to the single market, economic stability and record levels of productivity from a highly skilled workforce. To ensure the sector's continued growth, and with it the thousands of jobs it supports, these must be priorities in future negotiations."
The ONS said that construction was the one sector of the economy that was already going backwards in the period leading up to the referendum. 
The chief economist of the RICS surveyors' body, Simon Rubinsohn, said the uncertainty caused by Brexit had led to investment being delayed and concerns being raised about the availability of credit. 
"Encouragingly, the swift actions of the Bank of England in creating additional capacity for the banking sector to provide funding to meet demand should help alleviate some of this pressure," Rubinsohn said, referring to a £150bn boost to bank lending announced shortly after the Brexit vote. 
"Nevertheless, anecdotal evidence does indicate that the challenge for the British government in establishing a new relationship with the EU could see some investment plans in the construction sector scaled back."
The BRC reported that the equivalent number of full-time jobs in the industry fell by 2.4% in the second quarter, compared to the same quarter a year ago. 
The tougher outlook from the BRC followed a separate survey from business lobby group the CBI on Wednesday that found retail sales falling at their fastest rate since early 2012. Evidence culled from retailers in the two weeks immediately after the referendum showed that companies were cutting back on orders from their suppliers at a rate not seen since the economy was deep in recession in 2009.
Frances O'Grady, the general secretary of trade union umbrella body the TUC, said: "It's good news that growth strengthened in the last quarter before the referendum. The priority now is protecting growth from the fall in business confidence, and the risks to future investment, following the Brexit vote.
"The TUC has published an action plan to keep the economy moving and to make sure working people are not made to pay the price of Brexit. The government must give the go-ahead for a third runway at Heathrow, bring forward major new infrastructure projects like high-speed rail and announce a big expansion in housebuilding."
The Treasury has already announced that it has scrapped plans previously announced by George Osborne to run a budget surplus by the end of the current parliament and Hammond dropped a broad hint that he would cut taxes or increase spending in his autumn statement when he said fiscal policy could be "reset".
Economic news since the referendum has been mixed. Business surveys have raised the prospect of the economy going into reverse over the coming months, but the Treasury has been heartened by evidence that industrial production and consumer spending were both robust in the pre-referendum period.
Joe Grice, chief economist at the ONS, said the second quarter growth figures indicated little evidence that concern about a possible Brexit vote had a negative impact on the economy before the referendum.
"Continued strong growth across services, particularly in retailing, reinforced by healthy growth in the manufacture of cars and pharmaceuticals, boosted output in the second quarter.
"Any uncertainties in the run-up to the referendum seem to have had a limited effect. Very few respondents to ONS surveys cited such uncertainties as negatively impacting their businesses," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               165 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Carmakers look under the bonnet of Brexit; Automobiles: Exchange headwinds

BYLINE: Peter Campbell, Motor Industry Correspondent

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 786 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Car prices in Britain will rise as a result of the decision to quit the EU, the chief executive of PSA Peugeot Citroën has predicted.
Carlos Tavares said he expected overseas carmakers exporting to the UK to raise their prices to claw back foreign-exchange losses incurred as a result of the falling pound. The currency is trading at about 10 per cent below its pre-referendum value.
Every 1 per cent move in sterling against the euro cost Peugeot EUR30m annually, he said.
"Everybody is now waiting for somebody to make the first step in terms of pricing adjustment in that market. That could eventually have an impact on the overall market."
Peugeot was "managing very closely" the situation in the UK, with "local teams . . . taking a certain number of countermeasures", added Mr Tavares. The French company is not the only carmaker grappling with the impact of the Brexit vote. Nissan, Honda and Toyota, which manufacture in the UK, are heavily dependent on access to the European single market for much of their business.
They have said the long-term future of plants will depend on whether Britain faces trade barriers with Europe.
Volkswagen and Ford, which export hundreds of thousands of cars to the UK a year, have both said they are likely to be forced to raise prices if they face tariffs.
Of the 2.6m new cars sold a year in Britain, more than 2m are imported.
An increasing amount of expensive technology in vehicles - centred on emissions compliance and connectivity - is driving up the cost of making cars.
Many new vehicles are also sold at a discount to their sticker price.
Mike Hawes, chief executive of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT), said such discounts might diminish but cheap finance packages would remain attractive. "The transaction price may change because of the ability of importers to offer incentives," he said.
Last week General Motors, which owns the Vauxhall brand in the UK, said Brexit would cost it up to $400m in the second half of the year because of the exchange rate hit, and indicated that the company could reassess its manufacturing operations in Britain following the referendum result.
UK car manufacturing has undergone a renaissance spurred by investment by international companies. In the six months to June, 897,157 cars rolled off British production lines - the highest half-year figure for 16 years, according to the SMMT.
The UK is on course to make 2m cars a year by 2020, beating the previous record set in 1972 of 1.92m.
But Mr Hawes said the forecast had been "predicated on no major economic or political shocks".
More than half of Britain's largest car groups are concerned about securing investment as a result of Brexit uncertainty, according to a poll of SMMT members released today. Of the "large companies" - those employing 250 people or more - 56 per cent raised future investment as a big concern following the vote.
"The relationship with our biggest market is now uncertain," said Mr Hawes.
Some 65 per cent of large SMMT members polled said Brexit would have a negative effect on their business, compared with 6 per cent that expected the impact to be positive.
Luxury manufacturers such as Aston Martin and McLaren Automotive have previously indicated that Brexit could benefit them in the short term because exports will be cheaper.
Sergio Marchionne , chief executive of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, said the impact of the exchange rate on the company would be "minimal" because it was hedged, and also because the group sold only about 100,000 cars a year in the UK.
He was speaking as Fiat Chrysler increased its forecast for annual operating profit from EUR5bn to EUR5.5bn on the back of strong half-year results.
The Italian-controlled group posted a 23 per cent rise in six-month profits to EUR2.37bn, with flat revenues of EUR54.5bn and a 1 per cent dip in the number of vehicles sold to 2.26m. Jeep sales rose 16 per cent.
Sales of vehicles in every region except Europe, Middle East and Africa fell during the second quarter.
Peugeot reported a doubling of its half-year profits to EUR1.4bn after margins in its automotive division increased to 6.8 per cent from 5 per cent a year earlier. The announcement sent the shares up 7 per cent.
Nissan reported a 38 per cent rise in first-quarter profits to ¥267bn ($2.5bn) once currency fluctuations were stripped out. Revenues were 8.4 per cent lower at Y2.65tn.
The Japanese company did not comment on the potential fallout from the UK referendum result, even though it owns a production plant in Sunderland, north-east England, which is the largest car factory in Britain and produces 500,000 vehicles a year.
Ford, Volkswagen and Renault - all large importers to the UK - report results today.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               166 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Central Bank cuts growth forecast as it warns Brexit will hit hard

BYLINE: Colm Kelpie

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 403 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THE Central Bank has cut its growth forecasts for this year and next on the back of Britain's vote to quit the EU.
The bank's chief economist, Gabriel Fagan said the Irish economy now faced a period of "extremely high uncertainty".
The Central Bank said the short-term impact of the Brexit vote would push down growth here by 0.2pc this year and by a further 0.6pc next year.
In its latest quarterly economic bulletin, the bank is forecasting a rise in GDP of 4.9pc this year and 3.6pc in 2017.
Mr Fagan said the dramatic revision to Ireland's growth, on the back of the activities of the multinational sector, meant that key metrics to gauge the health of Ireland's economy were "less meaningful".
The Central Statistics Office said GDP surged by a massive 26.3pc, but the accounting activities of foreign companies based here, rather than actual domestic economic activity, skewed the data.
"Forecasters always tend to say that it's a very difficult time to forecast, there's so much uncertainty out there.
"On this occasion, it's actually true," Mr Fagan said.
"If you think of what happened in the revision of the GDP numbers last year and the outcome of the Brexit referendum, it means that we're in a period of extremely high uncertainty regarding the prospects for the Irish economy."
The Central Bank's decreased growth forecast following the Brexit vote comes as data released yesterday showed that retail sales in the UK fell at the fastest pace in more than four years this month.
Mr Fagan said the impact on the Irish economy could be worse than the bank's forecast.
Over 10 years, in a worst-case scenario, Ireland's economy could be 3.2pc smaller than it would have been if the UK had voted to remain in the EU.
Debt The Central Bank said that in both the short and medium terms, the economic impact of Brexit on Ireland was set to be "negative and material".
It added: "Qualitatively, both in the short run and the longer term, Brexit is likely to adversely affect the Irish economy." Mr Fagan said the Central Bank did not anticipate the scale of the revision to Irish GDP last year, which saw growth jump from 7.8pc to a huge 26.3pc.
Experts dismissed the massive revision as "Leprechaun Economics" but we will nevertheless have to pay more to the EU Budget.
It also pushes down Ireland's debt to GDP ratio, even though the level of debt, and the capacity of the economy to service it, remain the same, Mr Fagan said.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               167 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Central Bank cuts growth forecasts; Bank cites Ireland's 'particular exposure' to the fallout from Brexit

BYLINE: Laura Slattery

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 599 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Central Bank has cut its growth forecasts for this year and next, citing 
the Republic's "particular exposure" to the fallout from Brexit.
The bank now expects GDP growth of 4.9 per cent this year, down 0.2 percentage points on its previous forecast and 3.6 per cent next year, down 0.6 points. But it cautioned its estimates, which include a cut to its forecasted rate of export growth, had been made at a time of heightened uncertainty and that the risks to its forecasts are firmly "on the downside".
"The severity of this impact is difficult to gauge," said Central Bank chief economist Gabriel Fagan. "The impact on the Irish economy could be larger than what we have pencilled into the forecast."
As a result, the "best path" for the Government to adopt on budget policy is a cautious and prudent one, he said, so that the economy is in the best shape possible to withstand future shocks.
The bank's quarterly bulletin said the unexpected Brexit referendum result in the UK, combined with the distorting effect of the less than meaningful GDP figures published by the Central Statistics Office (CSO), were creating major difficulties in compiling forecasts. "Forecasters always tend to say it is a very difficult time to forecast - there is so much uncertainty out there," Mr Fagan said. "Well, on this occasion it is actually true."
'Particular exposure' 
The close links between the UK and Irish economies create a "particular exposure" for Ireland, it said, with sectors such as agri-food, clothing and footwear, and tourism especially vulnerable.  
The Central Bank has revised down its forecast for export growth in 2016 from 6.8 per cent to 6.4 per cent, while it also expects this rate to moderate to 4.5 per cent next year. Its previous forecast for 2017 export growth was 5.5 per cent. The impact of Brexit on consumer spending and employment is expected to be smaller, but still adverse.
"Our overall assessment is that, in both the short term and the long term, the economic impact of the Brexit referendum is set to be negative and material," said John Flynn, head of economic analysis at the Central Bank.
While the UK is negotiating with Europe, there is potential for a prolonged period of uncertainty, it says, which could damage spending and investment confidence. 
During this time, the Irish economy could suffer from protracted periods of risk-averse behaviour, or spikes of risk-aversion.
In the long term, the scale of the impact depends on the extent to which the free movement of goods, services, people and financial interactions between the EU and the UK is affected, once Brexit negotiations have concluded.
Downside risks 
While the economic outlook is still "relatively favourable", Mr Flynn said, the downside risks include the possibility that Brexit has a bigger impact than expected on the UK economy and on global growth. "We have no hard data on Brexit at the moment, so we are a bit in the air," said Luca Onorante, acting head of monetary policy at the Central Bank.  
Calculating the performance of the economy has been "made more problematic" by the extraordinary scale of the recent CSO revisions to its national output figures, Mr Fagan said. 
The figures distort the picture of what is happening in the Irish economy and make it difficult to interpret key data such as the level of borrowing and debt compared to GDP. 
Rather than focus on such ratios, the Government should focus on abolishing the deficit in cash terms by 2018, the bank said.
It must be careful not to rely "on volatile sources of revenue which may turn out to be transitory", Mr Fagan said.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               168 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: City seeks new model for life outside EU; BREXIT; Three possible scenarios presented for financial sector's changed role

BYLINE: Harriet Agnew and Patrick Jenkins

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As a worker in the City of London for 20 years - first in a lowly role at the Bank of England, then in a mid-ranking position at the now defunct Association for Payment Services - Theresa May would not have imagined her current quandary.
The prime minister now faces the daunting prospect of negotiating Britain's divorce from the EU while protecting the country's key interests.
Close to the top of that list is the City's role as a financial services hub and an anchor for the UK's biggest industry, worth as much as 10 per cent of gross domestic product. Depending on how successful Mrs May is, the City could face three different futures.
Brexit could offer an opportunity to maximise London as a less regulated offshore centre for renminbi trading, private banking or fintech, making use of the UK's timezone advantage between Shanghai and New York.
If London loses its role as a gateway to European markets, the City could seek to emulate places such as Singapore - which is able to attract business from Asia's powerhouses through light-touch regulation and a favourable tax regime.
The UK could turn into a sort of souped-up Singapore "if the offshore part picks up the slack left by the departure of some European businesses", said a managing director in government affairs at a large bank.
Britain already has a growing presence as a base for offshore renminbi trading and in April unseated Singapore as the second-largest clearing centre after Hong Kong for the currency.
The Swiss bankers' association has proposed an "F4" alliance between Switzerland, London, Hong Kong and Singapore to pool ideas and resources to co-ordinate positions on global financial regulation and access to the EU market.
Once out of the EU, the City could potentially backtrack on some of the bloc's regulations that it most dislikes, such as curbs on bankers' bonuses. But detractors point out that deregulating while remaining "equivalent" so as to retain single-market access is tricky.
The biggest blow to the City would be the loss of the crucial "passports" banks and other financial institutions use to sell services and raise funds in other EU markets from London.
Cities such as Paris, Frankfurt and Dublin are already rolling out the red carpet for banks, and further afield, Singapore, New York and Dubai could also go in for the kill.
A Treasury analysis this year suggested up to 285,000 financial sector jobs could be at risk after a Leave vote. The worry is that when banks leave, the professional services firms that work with them will follow over time. This would be compounded by a dearth of foreign direct investment and a struggling UK economy.
A campaign on immigration - one of the most sensitive issues in last month's referendum - could also make the City's foreign workers vulnerable. Nearly 11 per cent of the City's 360,000 workers come from elsewhere in the EU, according to the latest census.
And London's location as home to the world's principal place for trading the euro - a $2tn a day market - may also come under further pressure after previous EU attempts to shift more of the business to the eurozone.
Other countries are closely watching the City's relationship with the EU - notably China, whose banks recently picked London as their European financial base of choice.
Under a scenario where the UK was able to fudge some sort of access to the single market, London could carry on almost as before.
The key would be EU rules known as Mifid 2 , which allow other nations with "equivalent" regulatory standards to operate right across the single market in sectors such as trading. Banks would retain a large core presence in London. The question would be where they put new hires, rather than where they moved existing employees.
Similarly, asset managers may well keep their headquarters in London. But many already have Luxembourg and Dublin domiciled funds and could shift more business to those and locate euro-denominated business inside the EU. Euro trading could also stay in London. Roger Liddell, former chief executive of LCH.Clearnet, said: "If you start to divide up portfolios by currency you create a huge amount of inefficiency and a greater degree of risk."
Karen Briggs, head of Brexit at KPMG, added: "There are a number of aspects that take us away from the doomsday post-Brexit scenario: the UK's infrastructure, its trusted legal system and its strong resource and talent pool . . . It is still attractive to work in London and the UK."
Additional reporting by Roger Blitz
Editorial Comment page 10


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); HONG KONG (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               169 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Clinton would seek talks on Brexit fallout

BYLINE: Simon Carswell

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Hillary Clinton would seek immediate talks with the Irish and UK governments on the impact of Brexit on Ireland if elected US president, one of her most senior aides has said.
Speaking a day after Mrs Clinton became the first woman to be nominated to lead a major political party into the US presidential election, Jake Sullivan, her senior policy adviser, said the Democratic candidate's campaign team was watching the repercussions from the decision of UK voters to leave the European Union last month.
"There are so many open questions that have to get worked out within the UK about how they are going to go forward on this issue," Mr Sullivan told The Irish Times on the fringes of the Democratic national convention in Philadelphia.
"If Hillary were elected, I think she would want to get into discussions immediately with both 10 Downing Street and with the Taoiseach about what the United States can do to support our partners both in the UK and in Ireland. Beyond that it is just hard to get into details because so much remains up in the air."
Border poll 
Mr Sullivan, who was Mrs Clinton's deputy chief of state and later the director of policy planning when she was President Barack Obama's first secretary of state from 2009 to 2013, said she did not have a specific view on the issue of a post-Brexit Border poll on Irish reunification.  
"We are still watching things unfold but as the secretary has the opportunity to look at the dynamics that are playing out and has the chance to speak to people in Ireland and the UK, she will come to her own conclusions, but I think it is a bit premature," he said.
The Clintons, who played an instrumental role in the Northern Ireland peace process during Bill Clinton's presidency in the mid-1990s, have kept a close eye on Brexit's effect on Ireland.
Mr Clinton told Irish-American supporters at a campaign event in New York in April during the Democratic primary election that his wife had privately expressed concerns about the impact of Brexit, saying that it would be "awful for Ireland" and "pretty tough for Northern Ireland".
"Whacked" 
In March, Mr Clinton told another Irish-American audience that Northern Ireland would "really get whacked if Britain withdrew from the European Union".  
Mrs Clinton will formally accept the Democratic presidential nomination during a speech at the convention in Philadelphia tonight, officially kick-starting the national election campaign against Republican nominee Donald Trump leading up to the ballot on November 8th.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               170 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Costs goal: ITV goes on the attack after Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 185 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ITV, Britain's biggest commercial broadcaster, aims to cut £25m of costs next year amid post-Brexit uncertainty. Adam Crozier , chief executive, did not rule out job losses.
Mr Crozier said that advertising revenues had fallen in February but that there had been no "second gear" in revenue declines after the vote.
ITV had posted a 13 per cent fall in net advertising revenues in April ahead of the vote, and the stock fell more than 20 per cent the next day amid fears of a recession.
Shares in ITV rose more than 8 per cent yesterday after advertising revenues were boosted by the Euro 2016 football championship.
A jump in advertising revenues last month helped leave net advertising revenues flat at £838m for the six months to the end of June. But ITV said net advertising revenues were expected to be down about 1 per cent in the nine months to the end of September, with revenues likely to take a hit in August when viewers watch the Olympic Games, which is only being shown on BBC.
Total revenues increased 11 per cent to £1.5bn in the first half, with non-advertising revenues up 26 per cent to £874m.
See Lex


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               171 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Down to business on Brexit fallout

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 810 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: NO one has a clue as to what the outcome of Britain's decision to leave the European Union (EU) will be, but one thing's for sure, the exit creates a climate of uncertainty across Europe which opens doors for communicators, Fine Gael MEP Brian Hayes told a Public Relations Institute of Ireland (PRII) breakfast briefing on Brexit.
Hayes believes multinationals based in London will relocate. Economic uncertainty means it's hard to know which businesses will go and which will stay. Britain will slide into recession but how serious things become is anyone's guess.
Westminster will continue to enact EU policies as they hedge their bets on whether they should seek a model similar to what Norway has in the European Economic Area (EEA) and pay into the EU budget.
Hayes insisted Brexit shouldn't be compared to Maastricht or Lisbon, it's a once-in-a-lifetime decision to give up on the 'four freedoms' - movements of people, goods, capital and services over borders. Britain's new Prime Minister, Theresa May, has made it clear she's not for turning. If the leave decision is to be reversed, it would be the other side of a general election and that's over four years away.
"We hid behind British skirts a lot of the time," Hayes said. "We now need a new arrangement with Britain. Perhaps we should target the Benelux countries." Brexit can provide openings in financial and technology (fintech) markets, but it all depends on how Ireland manages the fallout.
The Government is working closely with Enterprise Ireland and the IDA. People should know 70pc of Ireland's financial decisions are made in Brussels. Brexit prompted PR clients to sit up and take notice.
"There's a lot of tyre kicking just now as uncertainty prevails," FleishmanHillard's head of issues and crisis management, James Dunny, said.
"Clients don't always see Ireland as a viable hub for communications and mediation skills. Social media means people are surrounded by like-minded people. Remember, the UK isn't going anywhere, regardless of whether it's in the EU," Dunny added.
Lorna Jennings, managing director at Keating and Associates, said Dublin was helped by IDA successes, many of them based on Ireland's close links with Britain. Ireland should market Dublin as a talent centre. "We must accept we're pretty small fry in the EU," Jennings added.
PR360 managing director Dan Pender referred to a post-Brexit poll his agency commissioned Amárach Research to conduct. Of the 1,000 people in Ireland interviewed, 62pc believe Europe is more important to Ireland than the UK and 86pc oppose cross-border controls.
Dan Pender, PR360 At least one in three people are more likely to shop in Newry after Brexit and 77pc support EU membership.
Pender said we can't take certainties like corporate tax for granted and more could be done to influence US businesses. Certainty also means avoiding mistakes like the latest CSO report. Paul Krugman's labelling the 26pc growth in GDP as "leprechaun economics" saw Ireland's reputation take a right hammering.
Brexit reflects a hostility to authority - for right or wrong, Pender added. Consultants have to decide how best to communicate in the current climate.
While it might be difficult for PR people to explain to their mothers what they actually do, they know what they're about. Alex Connolly of Fáilte Ireland said when the penny finally drops, there will be a backlash in Britain against the Brexiteers.
? Three of the four places on this year's Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) graduate programme launched last October have now been filled.
The scheme is designed to provide young people with practical work experience and give them an in-depth industry knowledge about disciplines by rotating across DAN agencies Carat, Vizeum, iProspect and Isobar.
Over 100 applications for the four, full-time paid positions were received. The graduates started in early July 4 and are in the first of their four, sixweek rotations.
For example, Sinead Duell is now a client service executive at iProspect. After working for 16 years in New York, running a bar and restaurant, she decided she wanted to take up a promotional role in hospitality.
She returned to Ireland and studied for a master's in marketing at the UCD Smurfit Graduate Business School in Blackrock.
When the chance came her way to join the DAN programme, she jumped at it. Duell sees it as a chance to work across media and digital and to learn from some of adland's best.
US Presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton ? As the Democrats formally endorse Hillary Clinton as their US presidential candidate at their convention in Philadelphia, a close friend of Clinton's, Keith Ferrazzi, has been confirmed as a speaker for the Pendulum Summit in Dublin in January. Ferrazzi will present talks on authentic relationships and business excellence.
Michael Cullen is editor of www.Marketing.ie: cullen@marketing.ie


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (91%); NORWAY (79%); BENELUX (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               172 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Economy grew strongly in run-up to Brexit vote

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 253 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The economy grew faster than predicted before the Brexit vote, official figures have showed.
The chancellor said Britain was entering its negotiations to leave the EU from a "position of strength" after GDP expanded at 0.6 per cent in the second quarter. This was up from the 0.4 per cent growth in the first quarter of 2016.
Joe Grice, chief economist at the Office for National Statistics, said that "any uncertainties in the run-up to the referendum seem to have had a limited effect". "Very few" respondents to its surveys had cited Brexit jitters as an issue for their business, he added.
The higher-than-expected rate of growth was partly driven by a stellar performance from the industrial sector, which delivered its biggest increase in output in almost 17 years. The manufacture of cars and pharmaceutical products showed particularly strong growth, the ONS said.
Philip Hammond said the figures showed that "the fundamentals of the British economy are strong".
He added: "Those negotiations will signal the beginning of a period of adjustment but I am confident we have the tools to manage the challenges ahead."
The FTSE 100 soared to its highest level this year after the release of the figures, which also showed that the annual growth in the economy accelerated to 2.2 per cent in the second quarter, from 2 per cent in the first.
However, Martin Beck, senior economic adviser to the EY Item Club, called the strong growth rate "one last hurrah" for the economy before it entered a weaker and more turbulent period.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               173 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: European Commission makes surprise choice for chief Brexit negotiator; Appointment of French former EU commissioner Barnier may antagonise UK

BYLINE: Suzanne Lynch

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 536 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The European Commission has risked antagoni 
sing the United Kingdom ahead of its forthcoming negotiations on exit from the European Union with the surprise appointment of French former EU commissioner Michel Barnier as a leading Brexit negotiator. 
The former internal markets commissioner was unveiled yesterday as the European Commission's chief Brexit official. While Mr Barnier was most recently a special adviser to commission president Jean-Claude Juncker on defence, he is best known for his role in handling the internal markets and financial services portfolio during the height of the euro zone crisis. During this time he introduced a raft of EU regulations on financial services, accountancy and banking, vowing to tighten EU financial regulation in the wake of the financial crisis and formulating the nascent banking union. His policies often put him at odds with the City of London, as he backed controversial proposals such as a cap on bankers' bonuses. 
Mr Barnier's official title will be chief negotiator "in charge of leading the Commission Taskforce for the Preparation and Conduct of the Negotiations with the United Kingdom under Article 50 of the TEU." 
However, it is expected that most of the heavy lifting and political decisions on the Brexit negotiations will be done by the European Council, representing member states. Nonetheless, Mr Barnier is likely to play a key role in the technical negotiations. He will assume his post on October 1st.
The 65-year old Frenchman held the position of internal markets commissioner from 2009 until 2014, replacing Irish commissioner Charlie McCreevy. He was succeeded by British commissioner Jonathan Hill, who resigned in the wake of the British referendum. Sir Julian King, who was nominated by Downing Street this month to replace Lord Hill, is expected to be allocated a new portfolio by the end of the month, though the former commissioner's financial services portfolio has been redistributed. Sir Julian, who was previously British ambassador to Ireland, must also be approved by the European Parliament, most likely in September. 
Spain and Portugal discussed 
Mr Barnier's surprise announcement was made as EU commissioners met in Brussels for their final weekly meeting before the summer break at which the budgetary situation in Spain and Portugal was also discussed.  
Despite both countries persistently missing their EU deficit targets, the European Commission refrained from imposing fines of up to 0.2 per cent of GDP (gross domestic product) on Spain and Portugal. EU Commissioner Pierre Moscovici admitted that the imposition of punitive sanctions would have been politically difficult for the European Union.
Both countries are under scrutiny for their 2015 budgets. Spain reported a deficit of 5.1 per cent of GDP for last year, rather than the 4.2 per cent target set by the European Commission, while Portugal's deficit came in at 4.4 per cent in 2015, well above the commission's target of 2.5 per cent.
Separately, a new survey of Irish Exporters Association (IEA) members has found most believe Brexit will be harmful for their business. The IEA found that 92 per cent of its members expected a negative effect to flow from the UK vote.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); SPAIN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); PORTUGAL (93%); IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               174 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: EU's Brexit man is scourge of the City

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 799 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sam Coates Deputy Political Editor Oliver Wright Policy Editor Bruno Waterfield Brussels Jean-Claude Juncker has chosen one of the most notorious opponents of the City to represent Brussels in Brexit talks with Britain.
Michel Barnier, the former French government minister and European commissioner, has previously clashed with the UK over rules on bankers' bonuses, attempts to relocate City activities to the eurozone and a shortselling ban.
His attempt to rein in the Bank of England in 2011 caused the then governor Sir Mervyn King to lose his temper at the Frenchman.
Mr Barnier, who insists on conducting all his negotiations in French, will oversee Brexit negotiations on behalf of the European Commission, after being appointed by Mr Juncker, its president.
The Frenchman is well-known to his opposite number, David Davis, the secretary of state for Brexit. Mr Barnier was France's Europe minister in 1996 when Mr Davis held the same job in John Major's government.
Downing Street reacted cooly to the announcement yesterday, suggesting that Mr Barnier will merely be one of several figures with whom they will deal during the Brexit negotiations. "We've said it's important that both sides prepare for the negotiations. We look forward to working with representatives from the member states, the Council and the Commission to ensure an orderly departure of the UK from the EU," a No 10 spokesman said.
Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat European affairs spokesman, said: "[Barnier] is no friend of the City of London to put it mildly. If you ask me whether I think Barnier is the kind of person who will bend over backwards for the UK then no - if anything I think he is going to drive a very hard bargain indeed. It wouldn't surprise me at all if very soon alarm bells are ringing across the City."
A number of City figures welcomed the announcement, however, saying that Mr Barnier had moderated his approach and showed himself open to pragmatic negotiations during his four years as an EU commissioner.
Mark Boleat, policy chairman at the City of London Corporation, said: "Michel Barnier will bring a wealth of European political experience to the table. Financial markets are inter-connected across Europe. It is important that they are stable but also that they have clarity as soon as possible on what happens next to ensure they continue to serve customers and businesses."
TheCityUK, a lobby group, said: "Michel Barnier has a deep understanding of financial services - an industry that has to be an important component of a successful new relationship between the UK and the EU." Mr Barnier's appointment was the first shot in a fierce Brussels turf war over who is in charge of Britain's withdrawal negotiations between Mr Juncker and Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council.
Mr Tusk has already appointed Didier Seeuws to head his negotiating team and the announcement of Mr Barnier's role was widely regarded as an attempt by Mr Juncker to steal the show.
Under the EU treaty's Article 50 exit clause, the European Council will set the "guidelines" for all negotiations and will "conclude" talks on Britain's withdrawal with the "consent" of MEPs. Mr Barnier will head the commission taskforce for the preparation and conduct of negotiations with the UK.
Profile The appointment of Michel Barnier has sent a strong signal to Britain (Bruno Waterfield writes). Eurosceptics have reacted with hostility to a man seen as the regulatory scourge of the City of London when he was the EU's financial services commissioner two years ago.
The reality is more complex. As well as two terms as a commissioner, 1999 to 2004 and 2010 to 2014, Mr Barnier has previously served as French foreign minister and a European campaign leader for presidents Chirac and Sarkozy. He has been an adviser to Mr Juncker on security and defence for the past two years.
The urbane Frenchman, 65, is a committed believer in a "united states of Europe" but has never let his belief in a EU federation stand in the way of his pragmatism or ambition.
His popular touch as campaign organiser made enemies among the énarques, the elite French politicians who dominate political life.
Some of his rivals call him "le cretin des Alpes", a jibe at his origin in the mountains of Savoy and a reference to the 18th century Alpine valley dwellers who suffered brain damage caused by iodine deficiency.
Mr Barnier is first a pro-European but foremost, in terms of his career and in his own words, a dealmaker who looks to "seal agreements, not on dreams or airy long-term prospects, on the reality of each state's interests".
Interviewed by La Croix newspaper the day after the British vote to leave the EU last month, Mr Barnier was, amid hyperbole and talk of punishment for Britain elsewhere, level-headed and restrained.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); BELGIUM (93%); FRANCE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               175 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: EU's Brexit man is scourge of the City

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 784 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Jean-Claude Juncker has chosen one of the most notorious opponents of the City to represent Brussels in Brexit talks with Britain.
Michel Barnier, the former French government minister and European commissioner, has previously clashed with the UK over rules on bankers' bonuses, attempts to relocate City activities to the eurozone and a shortselling ban.
His attempt to rein in the Bank of England in 2011 caused the then governor Sir Mervyn King to lose his temper at the Frenchman.
Mr Barnier, who insists on conducting all his negotiations in French, will oversee Brexit negotiations on behalf of the European Commission, after being appointed by Mr Juncker, its president.
The Frenchman is well-known to his opposite number, David Davis, the secretary of state for Brexit. Mr Barnier was France's Europe minister in 1996 when Mr Davis held the same job in John Major's government.
Downing Street reacted cooly to the announcement yesterday, suggesting that Mr Barnier will merely be one of several figures with whom they will deal during the Brexit negotiations. "We've said it's important that both sides prepare for the negotiations. We look forward to working with representatives from the member states, the Council and the Commission to ensure an orderly departure of the UK from the EU," a No 10 spokesman said.
Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat European affairs spokesman, said: "[Barnier] is no friend of the City of London to put it mildly. If you ask me whether I think Barnier is the kind of person who will bend over backwards for the UK then no - if anything I think he is going to drive a very hard bargain indeed. It wouldn't surprise me at all if very soon alarm bells are ringing across the City."
A number of City figures welcomed the announcement, however, saying that Mr Barnier had moderated his approach and showed himself open to pragmatic negotiations during his four years as an EU commissioner.
Mark Boleat, policy chairman at the City of London Corporation, said: "Michel Barnier will bring a wealth of European political experience to the table. Financial markets are inter-connected across Europe. It is important that they are stable but also that they have clarity as soon as possible on what happens next to ensure they continue to serve customers and businesses."
TheCityUK, a lobby group, said: "Michel Barnier has a deep understanding of financial services - an industry that has to be an important component of a successful new relationship between the UK and the EU." Mr Barnier's appointment was the first shot in a fierce Brussels turf war over who is in charge of Britain's withdrawal negotiations between Mr Juncker and Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council.
Mr Tusk has already appointed Didier Seeuws to head his negotiating team and the announcement of Mr Barnier's role was widely regarded as an attempt by Mr Juncker to steal the show.
Under the EU treaty's Article 50 exit clause, the European Council will set the "guidelines" for all negotiations and will "conclude" talks on Britain's withdrawal with the "consent" of MEPs. Mr Barnier will head the commission taskforce for the preparation and conduct of negotiations with the UK.
Profile The appointment of Michel Barnier has sent a strong signal to Britain (Bruno Waterfield writes). Eurosceptics have reacted with hostility to a man seen as the regulatory scourge of the City of London when he was the EU's financial services commissioner two years ago.
The reality is more complex. As well as two terms as a commissioner, 1999 to 2004 and 2010 to 2014, Mr Barnier has previously served as French foreign minister and a European campaign leader for presidents Chirac and Sarkozy. He has been an adviser to Mr Juncker on security and defence for the past two years.
The urbane Frenchman, 65, is a committed believer in a "united states of Europe" but has never let his belief in a EU federation stand in the way of his pragmatism or ambition.
His popular touch as campaign organiser made enemies among the énarques, the elite French politicians who dominate political life.
Some of his rivals call him "le cretin des Alpes", a jibe at his origin in the mountains of Savoy and a reference to the 18th century Alpine valley dwellers who suffered brain damage caused by iodine deficiency.
Mr Barnier is first a pro-European but foremost, in terms of his career and in his own words, a dealmaker who looks to "seal agreements, not on dreams or airy long-term prospects, on the reality of each state's interests".
Interviewed by La Croix newspaper the day after the British vote to leave the EU last month, Mr Barnier was, amid hyperbole and talk of punishment for Britain elsewhere, level-headed and restrained.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               176 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: EU's Brexit man is scourge of the City

BYLINE: Sam Coates;Oliver Wright ;Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Jean-Claude Juncker has chosen one of the most notorious opponents of the City to represent Brussels in Brexit talks with Britain.
Michel Barnier, the former French government minister and European commissioner, has previously clashed with the UK over rules on bankers' bonuses, attempts to move City activities to the eurozone and a shortselling ban.
His attempt to rein in the Bank of England in 2011 caused Sir Mervyn King, who was its governor, to lose his temper with the Frenchman.
Mr Barnier, who insists on conducting all his negotiations in French, will oversee Brexit negotiations on behalf of the European Commission, after being appointed by Mr Juncker, its president.
The Frenchman is well-known to his opposite number, David Davis, the secretary of state for Brexit. Mr Barnier was France's Europe minister in 1996 when Mr Davis held the same job in John Major's government.
Downing Street reacted coolly to the announcement yesterday, suggesting that Mr Barnier will merely be one of several figures with whom they will deal during the Brexit negotiations. "We've said it's important that both sides prepare for the negotiations. We look forward to working with representatives from the member states, the Council and the Commission to ensure an orderly departure of the UK from the EU," a No 10 spokesman said.
Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat European affairs spokesman, said: "[Barnier] is no friend of the City of London to put it mildly. If you ask me whether I think Barnier is the kind of person who will bend over backwards for the UK then no - if anything I think he is going to drive a very hard bargain indeed. It wouldn't surprise me at all if very soon alarm bells are ringing across the City."
A number of City figures welcomed the announcement, however, saying that Mr Barnier had moderated his approach and showed himself open to pragmatic negotiations during his four years as an EU commissioner.
Mark Boleat, policy chairman at the City of London Corporation, said: "Michel Barnier will bring a wealth of European political experience to the table. Financial markets are inter-connected across Europe. It is important that they are stable but also that they have clarity as soon as possible on what happens next to ensure they continue to serve customers and businesses."
TheCityUK, a lobby group, said: "Michel Barnier has a deep understanding of financial services - an industry that has to be an important component of a successful new relationship between the UK and the EU." Mr Barnier's appointment was the first shot in a fierce Brussels turf war over who is in charge of Britain's withdrawal negotiations between Mr Juncker and Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council.
Mr Tusk has already appointed Didier Seeuws to head his negotiating team and the announcement of Mr Barnier's role was widely regarded as an attempt by Mr Juncker to steal the show.
Under the EU treaty's Article 50 exit clause, the European Council will set the "guidelines" for all negotiations and will "conclude" talks on Britain's withdrawal with the "consent" of MEPs. Mr Barnier will head the commission taskforce for the preparation and conduct of negotiations with the UK.
Profile The appointment of Michel Barnier has sent a strong signal to Britain (Bruno Waterfield writes). Eurosceptics have reacted with hostility to a man seen as the regulatory scourge of the City of London when he was the EU's financial services commissioner two years ago.
The reality is more complex. As well as two terms as a commissioner, 1999 to 2004 and 2010 to 2014, Mr Barnier has previously served as French foreign minister and a European campaign leader for presidents Chirac and Sarkozy. He has been an adviser to Mr Juncker on security and defence for the past two years.
The urbane Frenchman, 65, is a committed believer in a "united states of Europe" but has never let his belief in a EU federation stand in the way of his pragmatism or ambition.
His popular touch as campaign organiser made enemies among the énarques, the elite French politicians who dominate political life.
Some of his rivals call him "le cretin des Alpes", a jibe at his origin in the mountains of Savoy and a reference to the 18th century Alpine valley dwellers who suffered brain damage caused by iodine deficiency.
Mr Barnier is first a pro-European but foremost, in terms of his career and in his own words, a dealmaker who looks to "seal agreements, not on dreams or airy long-term prospects, on the reality of each state's interests".
Interviewed by La Croix newspaper the day after the British vote to leave the EU last month, Mr Barnier was, amid hyperbole and talk of punishment for Britain elsewhere, level-headed and restrained.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               177 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: FTSE 250 set to wipe out Brexit losses; Equities

BYLINE: Elaine Moore and Richard Blackden

SECTION: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 482 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The FTSE 250, the index made up of companies heavily reliant on the state of the UK economy, is within touching distance of erasing its steep losses suffered in the wake of Britain's decision to leave the EU.
The index yesterday briefly surpassed its closing level on June 23, the day of the poll, and closed 1.2 per cent higher at 17265.91. That leaves it 0.4 per cent shy of its pre-Brexit level and more than 10 per cent above the low it reached in the days after the referendum.
Its rally gathered momentum after the publication of official data that showed the UK economy had expanded at a better than expected rate in the three months leading up to the poll. The FTSE 100, which is more internationally focused, finished up just 0.4 per cent at 6750.43.
Investors said the pace of the rebound in the FTSE 250 was impressive, if surprising.
"Markets have clearly become more relaxed about the implications of Brexit," said Louise Kernohan, investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management. "But it's a mixed bag, and this is being driven by [the FTSE 250] companies with an international exposure rather than domestic-focused stocks."
The vote shocked global investors, triggering turmoil that sent the pound to a 31-year low against the dollar and drove demand for haven assets such as gold and government bonds.
Share prices in the FTSE 250, which includes housebuilder Bovis Homes, retailer Debenhams and the challenger bank Virgin Money, bore the brunt of investor anxiety about the possible repercussions of the vote on the UK economy.
Blue-chip UK groups, whose foreign-based revenues are buoyed by a weaker pound, have proved more resilient to Brexit, erasing losses accumulated since the referendum in less than a week.
While the FTSE 100 is about 8 per cent higher for the year in local currency terms, its performance in dollar terms is a 2016 loss of 4 per cent.
Nick Nelson, head of European equity strategy at UBS, said that companies with foreign-based revenues benefiting from the weaker pound were also contributing to the recovery in domestic-oriented mid-caps. While EasyJet, the budget airline, has cautioned that Brexit is likely to affect its income, UK-listed specialty chemicals maker Croda, whose products include lipstick ingredients and car paints, posted a 7.8 per cent rise in half-year sales this week.
The bifurcation of performance in within the FTSE 250 put the recovery on shaky ground, said Paul Marriage, UK equities fund manager, at Schroders. "The immediate impact of Brexit on companies has yet to be seen. There haven't been many profit warnings or failed transactions, but the question is whether this will last or we are just in a limbo period until we have more data on the economy."
The FTSE 2050 briefly touched 17,362 yesterday, breaching the 17,333 level that markets closed at on June 23 before referendum votes were counted, before closing slightly lower.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               178 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Health check of key sectors post-Brexit vote counter growth figure; Signs of retrenchment in construction industry, car factories and high street stores overshadow stronger than expected 0.6% expansion in run-up to vote

BYLINE: Larry Elliott and Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1163 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Fears that the British economy has been knocked off course by the Brexit vote have been reinforced by signs of retrenchment across key industries, according to fresh reports.
The first health checks of important sectors since Britain voted to leave the European Union overshadowed growth figures, showing a stronger-than-expected performance by the UK in the run-up to the referendum. 
 Related:  UK growth will slow down markedly, despite upbeat GDP figures
An expansion of 0.6% in the British economy between April and June was countered by signals from the construction industry, car factories and high street stores that provide the Bank of England with justification for moving to boost growth when its interest rate-setting committee meets next week.
The City was braced for action - from the Bank and the Treasury - to head off the threat of recession after Thursday's report. The chancellor, Philip Hammond, made it clear that there would be no repeat of the second quarter GDP growth in the months following Brexit.
Hammond said the UK would at least enter divorce negotiations with the EU from a position of strength after the Office for National Statistics said the best quarterly performance by industry since 1999 had pushed up overall economic growth from 0.4% in the first three months of 2016.
However, Hammond indicated a slowdown was imminent. "Those negotiations will signal the beginning of a period of adjustment, but I am confident we have the tools to manage the challenges ahead, and along with the Bank of England, this government will take whatever action is necessary to support our economy and maintain business and consumer confidence," he said.
Sterling dropped on the foreign exchanges, despite the growth figures, amid speculation of a package of measures from the Bank's monetary policy committee on 4 August that might include a cut in the cost of borrowing, a resumption of the quantitative easing money creation programme and incentives to boost lending to households and businesses.
The Bank has been weighing up what little evidence there has been of the state of the economy in the five weeks since the referendum.
In the latest batch of surveys released on Thursday, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders said its members were gloomy about the prospects for growth, jobs and investment; the British Retail Consortium said jobs were being shed in the months leading up to the referendum; and RICS - the body that represents chartered surveyors - said workloads for construction had weakened.
The SMMT gave an upbeat assessment of the industry's performance in the run-up to the referendum, with almost 900,000 cars rolling off production lines at UK factories in the first six months of the year. This was 13% more than the same period in 2015 and the best half-yearly performance since 2000. Almost 80% of the cars built in UK factories in the first half of 2016 were destined for other countries, with the EU the biggest market.
 Related:  UK economy grew by 0.6% before Brexit vote
However, the SMMT's chief executive, Mike Hawes, said the outlook for UK car manufacturing was uncertain now that Britain had opted to pursue a future outside the EU.
"The latest increase in production output is the result of investment decisions made over a number of years, well before the referendum was even a prospect," he said. 
Warning that this success was linked to membership of the single market, he said: "These decisions were based on many factors but primarily on tariff-free access to the single market, economic stability and record levels of productivity from a highly skilled workforce. To ensure the sector's continued growth, and with it the thousands of jobs it supports, these must be priorities in future negotiations."
The ONS said that construction was the one sector of the economy that was already going backwards in the period leading up to the referendum. 
The chief economist of the RICS surveyors' body, Simon Rubinsohn, said the uncertainty caused by Brexit had led to investment being delayed and concerns being raised about the availability of credit. 
"Encouragingly, the swift actions of the Bank of England in creating additional capacity for the banking sector to provide funding to meet demand should help alleviate some of this pressure," Rubinsohn said, referring to a £150bn boost to bank lending announced shortly after the Brexit vote. 
"Nevertheless, anecdotal evidence does indicate that the challenge for the British government in establishing a new relationship with the EU could see some investment plans in the construction sector scaled back."
The BRC reported that the equivalent number of full-time jobs in the industry fell by 2.4% in the second quarter, compared to the same quarter a year ago. 
The tougher outlook from the BRC followed a separate survey from business lobby group the CBI on Wednesday that found retail sales falling at their fastest rate since early 2012. Evidence culled from retailers in the two weeks immediately after the referendum showed that companies were cutting back on orders from their suppliers at a rate not seen since the economy was deep in recession in 2009.
Frances O'Grady, the general secretary of trade union umbrella body the TUC, said: "It's good news that growth strengthened in the last quarter before the referendum. The priority now is protecting growth from the fall in business confidence, and the risks to future investment, following the Brexit vote.
"The TUC has published an action plan to keep the economy moving and to make sure working people are not made to pay the price of Brexit. The government must give the go-ahead for a third runway at Heathrow, bring forward major new infrastructure projects like high-speed rail and announce a big expansion in housebuilding."
The Treasury has already announced that it has scrapped plans previously announced by George Osborne to run a budget surplus by the end of the current parliament and Hammond dropped a broad hint that he would cut taxes or increase spending in his autumn statement when he said fiscal policy could be "reset".
Economic news since the referendum has been mixed. Business surveys have raised the prospect of the economy going into reverse over the coming months, but the Treasury has been heartened by evidence that industrial production and consumer spending were both robust in the pre-referendum period.
Joe Grice, chief economist at the ONS, said the second quarter growth figures indicated little evidence that concern about a possible Brexit vote had a negative impact on the economy before the referendum.
"Continued strong growth across services, particularly in retailing, reinforced by healthy growth in the manufacture of cars and pharmaceuticals, boosted output in the second quarter.
"Any uncertainties in the run-up to the referendum seem to have had a limited effect. Very few respondents to ONS surveys cited such uncertainties as negatively impacting their businesses," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               179 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Loss of UK markets after Brexit will hurt EU exporters; Letters &Editorial Comment

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 337 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ¦ Most of the commentators about Brexit have concentrated on the damage it may do to the UK. Little comment has been made about the damage that the loss of the UK markets will inflict on the EU.
We should remember the classic political sitcom 'Yes, Minister', and wily civil servant Sir Humphrey's lecture to the minister: "We have tried to have a disunited Europe for the last 500 years from the outside; now that we are in we will make a pig's breakfast of the whole thing."
New British Prime Minister Theresa May is in no hurry to start the ball rolling. I bet, as Sir Humphrey also said, that, "The Foreign Office will be terribly pleased, it will be just like old times."
The marketing people in the major European exporting countries won't experience the same joy. German experts will be wondering where they will find markets for their exports of (EURO)92bn. The same goes for the Netherland's (EURO)46bn, France's (EURO)41bn, Italy's (EURO)24bn, Spain's (EURO)20bn and of, course, our own country's (EURO)18bn of current exports to the UK. The UK is also the biggest European tourist 'exporter', representing 22pc of all tourist bed nights.
I am sure that the European market experts will have a tough job working out the number of Porsche, BMW and Mercedes cars as well as the number of cases of Champagne and Italian fashion items that Latvia, Romania, Bulgaria and Poland can absorb.
China's market for luxury goods is contracting, and as a result of Russia's escapade in the Ukraine the EU has imposed a trade. embargo on exports to Russia.
The worst nightmare might still happen: should he win the US presidency, Donald Trump might succeed in reigniting Detroit as the world's leading car manufacturing city.
It is very likely that the UK's demand for restrictions of some sort on border control will be acceptable to the European exporting countries - indeed, with the emergence of 'home-grown terrorists', all countries will probably look favourably on border controls for the entire EU.
Hugh Duffy Cleggan, Co Galway


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); UKRAINE (73%); LATVIA (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               180 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Naked TV - the surprise remedy for Brexit angst; Channel 4's new dating show Naked Attraction is set to be the sulphurous super-success of the age - and an antidote to the stress of the news

BYLINE: Peter Bradshaw

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 619 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It could be a measure of my essential shallowness, or that of my friends, or a general traumatised need to avoid thinking about the news, but now our conversations go something like this: "Mmm, yes, well the thing about Brexit is... oh my God, CHANNEL 4'S NAKED ATTRACTION! Did you SEE it? That guy! That woman! With the ... And his ... Aghhhh!!" Naked Attraction is Channel 4's extraordinary new dating show, set to be the sulphurous super-success of the age, despite the Ofcom outrage and also the inevitable protestations of those who claim to find it "boring". (Oh please.)
The participants see each other stark naked first - which is the way we see them. And then they have the clothed date, which is over in a few seconds, of course, because who cares? The real nude action has already been dwelt upon, at some length. It's an evolutionary advance on the coy flirtations behind Strictly Come Dancing, The Voice, The X Factor - everything. Naked Attraction cuts to the naked chase.
 Related:  Grin and bare it - how naked dating shows could strip us of shame | Flic Everett
What is interesting to me is that tattoo-reveals are considered unimportant. In the first programme, a woman had a line of something that could have been poetry, or Hallmark-greeting-card banality, tattooed across her stomach. At first it looked like an operation scar. And nobody ever asked her what it meant, or why she chose it.
What a very effective idea for a dating show. It reminds me of Kingsley Amis's famous, if slightly unsettling dictum: what is the sexiest part of a woman's naked body? Her face.
                                        The kitchen coalition                                      
Miriam González Durántez, the lawyer married to the former deputy prime minister Nick Clegg, has publicly derided Samantha Cameron's fondness for serving up Hellmann's mayonnaise in the jar. Is González Durántez being a snob? Or is she making a subtle dig at what she considers to be Mrs Cameron's breezy inverted snobbery in slapping the Hellmann's jar down on the table at lunch?
My theory is that González Durántez wants us to remember the greatest mayo-related event in British cultural history: the Gourmet Night episode of TV's Fawlty Towers, where Basil, played by John Cleese, is trying so hard to be a cut above the common herd that he declines to serve Heinz salad cream, instead giving his clientele the impossibly exotic substance called "mayonnaise". And then of course someone complains that there isn't proper salad cream, sending Basil into a paroxysm of rage. Which brings me to another question: whatever happened to Heinz salad cream? I quite liked it.
                                        We've been expecting you ...                                      
MI6 made history this week by hosting its first ever school visi t. Pupils from Pen Y Dre high school in Merthyr Tydfil were shown around the intelligence organisation's London headquarters, where they met Alex Younger, known as C, and even spoke to the person who deals in spy equipment - a real-life Q.
The schoolchildren themselves didn't know it was happening until the last moment; they were in the capital for a general careers event, which they had won as a prize. Of course, that is because of security, but I wonder if C and Q didn't want the teenagers getting time to think up any cheeky questions.
The last thing they wanted was for someone to put up a hand and ask C to comment on the Unite chief Len McCluskey's theory that their chaps spend their time trashing anti-Corbyn MPs' offices, and blaming it on Jeremy. That might cause Q to reach for one of his specially customised umbrellas and give the teen an old-fashioned spycraft poke in the ribs.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               181 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Outside London no one's bothered about Brexit

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 371 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: One of the UK's largest housebuilders has said that its customers have stopped talking about Brexit beyond central London as it reported that it was business as usual in the month after the vote to leave the European Union.
Taylor Wimpey was a leading performer on the FTSE 100 yesterday after it reported that it had seen no "meaningful change to date" in its house sales, with trading last month at a normal seasonal range. The update came as the group reported that operating profits for the first half of the year rose by 9 per cent to £279.1 million.
Pete Redfern, chief executive of Taylor Wimpey, said: "Outside of prime central London, people have stopped talking about it in the context of buying a house. If you are on one of our sites in Glasgow or Exeter or wherever it just doesn't seem to come up as a conversation.
It did for the first week but it fairly quickly dried up."
He added that because 40 per cent of the company's sales came from firsttime buyers who could access the government's Help to Buy scheme, the housebuilder had a better outlook after the referendum than the likes of estate agents that relied on sellers in the housing market. "We are heavily weighted towards first-time buyers ... so it's low interest rates and job security that are fundamental to them."
The housebuilder said that immediately after the surprise vote to leave the EU there was a small increase in customers pulling out of sales but cancellation rates were back to their previous levels. During the month since the EU referendum, Taylor Wimpey's net private sales rate has been 0.65, in line with the time of year; over the year to date the rate was 0.77, down slightly from 0.78 a year earlier.
In a sign of confidence about the housing market, Taylor Wimpey said that it would pay a special dividend of £300 million, or about 9.2p a share, in July next year as well as an interim dividend of 0.53p a share in October. The company said it completed 6,019 homes, 3 per cent up from a year earlier, in the six months of the year to July 3, and sold its homes at prices 5.8 per cent higher, averaging £238,000. The order book rose by 16 per cent to £2.2 billion.
Shares in Taylor Wimpey added 9¾p, or 6.7 per cent, to close at 154½p.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               182 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Parochial DUP fails to see big picture arising from Brexit

BYLINE: Newton Emerson

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 776 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The DUP's true objection to an all-Ireland forum has been revealed and it is so parochial it could barely squeeze a drip from a parish pump.
When DUP leader Arlene Foster shot down Taoiseach Enda Kenny's proposal for a forum three weeks ago, her concerns were presumed to be the normal unionist contempt for anything all-Ireland, plus paradoxical indignation at Kenny forgetting to run the idea past her first.
But none of this bothered the DUP, according to an interview with its east Belfast MP Gavin Robinson in last Saturday's News Letter, since confirmed by other party sources.
Robinson spoke of the DUP's "absolute understanding" that there must be "cross-Border discussion" and even proposed that Dublin could be Northern Ireland's "voice" in Brussels.
Where the Taoiseach had crossed the line was in suggesting that all the main Stormont parties could attend the forum, rather than just the two Executive parties - Sinn Féin and the DUP.
It would be "wrong for the Irish Government to facilitate a role for parties which have excluded themselves from government in Northern Ireland", Robinson said. "It's not for Enda Kenny to give them a role."
The role currently occupied by those parties - the UUP, SDLP and Alliance - is Stormont's first opposition of the modern era, created three months ago. This was big news in Northern Ireland before the world fell apart and evidently it still is big news inside the DUP, given that it finds opposition rivalry more important than cross-Border discussion.
Games vs crisis
 The tiny scale of that rivalry is laughable. Only the UUP competes with the DUP for votes and, apart from a brief blip last year, it has been losing ground for decades. Even if both parties' fortunes were reversed, Stormont's new opposition rules do not make leaving the Executive compulsory. So the DUP humiliated the Taoiseach, who it wants to be the North's ambassador to Europe, because he might have lent some obscure credence to one fading rival that cannot conceivably put it out of office. Of course, the DUP is not alone in playing petty games amid a constitutional crisis. Brexit is only happening because former British prime minister David Cameron risked the cohesion of the UK to paper over a crack in the Conservative Party.  
Kenny and Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin have spent the past fortnight musing on a Border poll for no better reason than to steal a march on Sinn Féin and each other.
The DUP is in regional government so perhaps its pettiness is less out of proportion. Yet that is not how it should seem to Foster's party, which regards Northern Ireland as a country.
Compare the perceived threats to the union with the DUP's focus on Stormont trivia and it is clear that it simply does not think there is a crisis.
Nationalists have accused the DUP of wanting a hard border or seeking to undermine the peace process but the party has always stated it does not want the former and has just secured a triumph for the latter, through last December's Fresh Start agreement. Why would it jeopardise this, especially with new leader Foster still finding her feet?
The DUP may have less parochial hope of holding the balance of power in Westminster, where it has eight MPs against a fragile Tory working majority of 16. However, its most practical prospect for Westminster influence was to help Cameron cling on after a Remain victory while his Eurosceptics rebelled. So why join the rebels?
When the DUP took its pro-Brexit position, it will have known this reflected the majority of unionist opinion but that would not have justified knowingly leading unionism over a cliff. It must also be remembered few expected Leave to win, so the DUP set itself up to lose just to commune with its base on an apparently arcane question, three years before the next scheduled election - an eternity in political terms.
Value of Euroscepticism
 The UUP was pro-Remain, despite a few internal rumbles. Ensuring it is not in any way recognised for this seems to be more of a priority for the DUP today than sorting out the Brexit mess, in part because it does not believe Brexit will cause a mess.  
We must confront the awful possibility DUP Euroscepticism is a position of worthy principle, sincerely held. Most people in the party genuinely believe cross-Border and single-market issues will be solved, the UK will thrive, Scottish nationalism will abate and everything will be fine. They are also completely indifferent to how much this is antagonising Northern nationalists.
A further annoyance for nationalists as they work to solve Brexit is any progress they make will just confirm the DUP's conviction that really there is no problem. 


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (76%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               183 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Port operators hope to avoid reform but keep close ties; BREXIT; Regulation

BYLINE: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 284 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: EU exit negotiators will face a "key test" to ensure UK ports escape new rules but can still trade freely with Europe, says the head of the UK's largest port operators' body.
James Cooper, chairman of the UK Major Ports Group, was speaking as his organisation battles the Port Services Regulation, a proposed EU law aimed at liberalising port operations.
Because Britain's ports are nearly all owned by private companies and those in mainland Europe are mostly owned by public sector port authorities, the rules will have different effects.
Mr Cooper wants the government to maintain close trading links with Europe but secure exemption from the regulation, reflecting the delicate balance that the Brexit negotiators will have to strike.
The regulation would force port operators to offer an alternative provider of services such as container handling where there was only one or they could be subject to caps on their fees. The Major Ports Group believes the regulation risks creating inefficiencies and discouraging new investment in UK ports.
"Exempting the UK from the provisions of the regulation is a key test of the success of the negotiations that are about to unfold," Mr Cooper said.
Departure from the EU even so presented an opportunity for the UK to secure a trading relationship that preserved "a very large part of the single market, if not all", he said.
The country might also be able to strike bilateral trade deals with other countries and trading blocs worldwide and develop rules more suited to the UK.
"I recognise the challenges," Mr Cooper, who is also chief executive of ABP, the UK's biggest port operator by volume, said of the Brexit negotiations. "But there are opportunities here."


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               184 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Rate rise back on cards as Fed shrugs off Brexit; Risks 'to economic outlook have diminished'

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 529 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit poses no problems for America, the US central bank signalled last night as it opened the door to a second rise in interest rates as early as September.
In an optimistic statement after its July meeting, the Fed said: "Near-term risks to the economic outlook have diminished." One of the ten members of the federal open market committee voted for an immediate rise, in a sign of growing confidence in the world's largest economy, as the Fed left rates on hold in the range of 0.25-0.5 per cent.
Wall Street gave a muted reaction with the Dow Jones industrial average closing flat in percentage terms and just 1.58 points lower at 18.472.17.
The prospect of a second rate rise since last December comes as the Bank of England prepares to cut rates, potentially to 0.25 per cent, to shore up growth in Britain after the vote to leave the European Union. While the UK faces an economic slowdown, the Fed played down any threat of a spillover from Brexit by saying that risks had diminished since its June meeting days before the referendum.
This month the International Monetary Fund downgraded global growth and warned of the potential for severe post-Brexit contagion through financial markets. Since then markets have settled down, removing worries about an immediate crisis. The Fed left some room for manoeuvre by saying it would continue to "closely monitor global economic and financial developments".
The US raised rates for the first time in nine years last December as it put the financial crisis in the past and signalled that another four moves were likely in 2016. It has struggled to follow through on the plans as turbulent markets at the start of the year combined with weakerthan-expected growth and low inflation. The Fed has since scaled back the outlook to two rate increases this year and economists said yesterday that its language raised the prospect of the first of those coming in two months' time.
Paul Ashworth, chief US economist at Capital Economics, said the combination of dissent on the Fed committee and the statement that risks had diminished "is a clear indication that a September rate hike might be coming".
Michael Metcalfe, head of global macro strategy at State Street Global Markets, agreed that September was a "slim" possibility. "The timing of the next Fed move will be more dependent in the coming quarter than it has been all year," he added. The US economy has been gathering steam recently. June's jobs data were very strong at 287,000, the best since last October, and sales of new homes were at their highest since 2008.
In its statement the Fed drew attention to the improvements. Household spending has also been growing strongly, it said. Inflation remains at 1.6 per cent, below the Fed's 2 per cent target, but it said that was largely because of cheap oil and that the effect would "dissipate" in the medium term.
In the UK, the Bank is expected to launch a package of measures next Thursday to cushion the blow from Brexit in a move that will drive a gulf between policy in Britain and the US. Less than two years ago, the UK had been expected to raise rates first.
Leading article, page 27 Talking UK into recession, pages 38-39
Graphic
Royal watchers Jenna Coleman stars in the forthcoming ITV drama Victoria. The broadcaster is planning £25 million of cuts to offset an advertising slide. Page 45


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               185 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Reasons to be Hopeful; So far, the economy is weathering Brexit better than expected

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 565 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Jack Welch, the former General Electric chief, liked to say that his best business decisions came "straight from the gut". There is no doubt that many British businesses have been feeling queasy since the EU referendum, but decisions are being made. The economy has not ground to a halt. The doom and gloom forecasts of a Brexit vote's impact have not come true, at least not yet.
Queasiness will persist in some quarters until the first authoritative data gathered since June 23 is published. That may point to a downturn. Equally, the experts whose short-term projections have been proved wrong could be proved wrong again. Mr Welch's maxim is worth remembering either way. Confidence is an essential business lubricant and it is based on more than cold statistics. With so much about Brexit a matter of conjecture, Britain's economic future will depend to a significant extent on employers' and investors' gut feelings about the risks and opportunities ahead. The greatest risk and the worst outcome would be for UK plc to talk itself into recession.
Figures released yesterday showed the economy growing faster than expected in the second quarter of the year. Many analysts had feared a prereferendum slowdown. Such a slowdown is discernible in the data but only after an unusually strong April, which suggests the economy went into the Brexit era in fundamentally good health.
Philip Hammond, the chancellor, welcomed the figures on a visit to London's City Airport, where a £344 million expansion is under way. He could have chosen any one of half a dozen settings with a positive story to tell. Hours earlier GlaxoSmith-Kline, Britain's biggest pharmaceutical company, announced that it was proceeding with a £275 million investment in three production facilities. The decision to go ahead has been smoothed by increased export earnings thanks to a weakened pound, but is based mainly on attractive tax incentives and the quality of the company's British workforce.
McDonald's has announced it is hiring 5,000 extra UK staff. Wells Fargo, the American bank, has bought a new London headquarters for £300 million. Taylor Wimpey, the housebuilding giant, says it is buying up land again after a brief post-referendum pause. In Cambridge, where the computer chip maker ARM Holdings is to be bought for £24 billion, the buyer, Japan's SoftBank, has said it will double the company's workforce.
This time next month the animal spirits of British capitalism may be more subdued. The first economic indicators based solely on data from July point down, not up, and they include some of the worst retail sales figures in four years. Ireland, which depends heavily on trade with Britain, has revised down its growth forecasts for this year and next, while the City will pay close attention to the Bank of England's first post-referendum inflation report next Thursday.
In the meantime the Brexit vote's clearest impact has been on sterling. That has been offset at least partly by the weakened currency's boost to exports. As expected, the FTSE 100 index is well above pre-referendum levels as a result, and the FTSE 250 has recovered briskly too. It is far too soon to be complacent, but not too soon to note that the worst case scenarios have so far not come to pass. The next set of forecasts should take this into account. The last thing that Britain needs is self-fulfilling prophesies of doom.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               186 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Stick with UK despite Brexit, EI tells Irish exporters

BYLINE: Colm Kelpie

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 539 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: IRISH businesses shouldn't turn their backs on the UK despite the Brexit vote, with potential opportunities in the NHS, the water market and the Northern Powerhouse agenda, Enterprise Ireland (EI) has said.
The positive argument is in contrast to the repeated warnings about the harmful effects of a weakened pound and concerns over the health of the British economy.
EI said Irish firms would be missing out if they opted to look away from the UK market despite the fallout from the June 23 vote.
"Despite understandable concern over the UK's vote to leave the EU, our nearest neighbours will remain a natural first market for Irish exporters due to proximity, a shared language and similar business cultures," said Marina Donohoe, EI's UK and Northern Europe Director, in an update provided to the agency's client companies.
"While strategies to offset whatever consequences arise from the UK vote are advised, businesses in Ireland would be missing a trick if they discounted the UK market."
The agency pointed out seven potential opportunities, including the UK's National Infrastructure Delivery Plan, the Northern Powerhouse agenda, the Scottish government Investment Plan, the NHS's 'Five year Forward View', the water market, financial services and aerospace.
But despite the positive intervention, Irish businesses are likely to be cautious - at least in the short-term - with data released yesterday showing retail sales in the UK fell at the fastest pace in more than four years this month, signalling wariness among consumers.
The Confederation of British Industry said its monthly retail sales index dropped to minus 14, the lowest since January 2012, from 4 in June. A gauge of the outlook showed stores anticipate a similar decline next month.
"While conditions in the retail sector have weakened, we should be careful about reading too much too soon, as consumers were likely to err on the side of caution in the immediate period following a vote to leave the EU," said Rain Newton-Smith, CBI chief economist, suggesting the drop may be a short-term reaction to the vote.
Irish businesses are being urged to think long-term.
Ms Donohoe's comments are contained in a guide sent to EI client companies on strategies to adopt in the wake of the Brexit vote.
It focuses on the need to hedge, to have a business plan in place, and to focus on R&D. The agency's chief executive, Julie Sinnamon, said EI is advising companies to look for new UK opportunities, as well as diversifying into new markets.
"But contingency plans and near-term responses to the UK vote are needed," Ms Sinnamon said.
"The legal status of contracts, currency risk management, tariffs, staffing and supply chain are among the matters exporters must consider."
In a chapter looking at the legal implications of a Brexit, Sean Ryan, a partner in Eversheds, said certain areas of business including trading laws, employment and competition laws are likely to be impacted. But to what degree remains unknown.
"There has been much talk about what the UK's future trading relationship with the EU might look like," he said.
"A bit like the end of the Rose of Tralee: will it be the Norwegian model, the Swiss model, or maybe even the WTO model? The truth is, nobody knows."


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRELAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               187 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday 10:55 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May on Brexit tour of eastern Europe; UK prime minister visits Slovakia and Poland, where she says a desire for immigration control was at the heart of the referendum result

BYLINE: Rowena Mason in London and Alex Duval Smith in Warsaw

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 684 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has told eastern European countries that British people have sent a "very clear message" on the need to reduce migration through their vote to leave the EU.
 Related:  Theresa May: EU citizens' rights depend on fate of Britons abroad
She delivered the warning at press conferences with the Slovakian prime minister in Bratislava and then the Polish prime minister in Warsaw, as she continued her tour of European capitals to lay the foundations for leaving the European Union.
The EU has banned member states from negotiating over Brexit until the UK triggers article 50 of the Lisbon treaty starting the divorce process. But May has visited six European leaders in the last eight days, as No 10 tries to work out whether it is feasible to keep free trade with the rest of the EU while curbing free movement of people.
At the event in Bratislava, May spelled out that the UK's deal with the EU will have to take into account voters' views on immigration control. 
However, Robert Fico, the Slovakian leader, said the "perception British voters have" of EU migration was "slightly different to how we perceive migration on the continent". 
May repeated that message in Warsaw, saying the voters had sent a "very clear message that they do not want free movement to continue as it has in the past". 
In response, Beata Szydlo, the Polish prime minister, stressed that Poland sees the free movement of people as a key issue. "Any arrangement between the European Union and the United Kingdom in the future regarding freedom of movement is likely to be the most important part of the negotiations between both parties," she said. "It will not be easy. But I think both for Britain and the EU it is very important that this issue - one of the four freedoms of the internal market - is saved."
May also repeated her position that Polish and Slovakian workers in the UK will have their right to remain preserved only if UK citizens enjoy those same rights in Poland and Slovakia.
May said: "We value the contribution that Poles have made to the UK. While we are a member there will be no changes. It is important that we see the rights of British people in other EU countries as also being respected. We also want to get the right deal for goods and services."
The Polish prime minister appeared to have accepted May's overarching position that citizens' rights should be reciprocal after Brexit. However, the reference was vague and neither leader specified whether they were referring to movement, residency or benefit access. 
Szydlo said: "It is for us to negotiate to ensure the rights of Polish citizens in the UK and those of UK citizens in the European Union be maintained.''
At both events, May stressed that she is keen for the UK to have its own distinct relationship with the EU rather than an "off the shelf" model previously negotiated with other nations such as Norway or Switzerland.
"We should be driven by what is in the best interests of the UK and what is going to work for the European Union, not by the models that already exist," she told the news conference in Bratislava. "We need to find a solution that addresses the concerns of the British people about free movement while getting the best possible deal on trade in goods and services."
This indicates that she is hoping her new minister for Brexit, David Davis, will be able to strike a bespoke deal that manages a balance between controlling free movement and preserving free trade.
However, anything less than an end to free movement that sees EU citizens treated in the same way as citizens from the rest of the world is unlikely to satisfy the most hardline pro-Brexit MPs in the Conservative party and activists in Ukip.
The task of negotiating trade deals with the rest of the world has been given to Liam Fox, the new trade secretary, who has been in the US attempting to initiate talks. However, the US has said it is difficult to begin meaningful discussions until the UK is out of the EU.
Fox was also overruled by No 10 when he suggested the UK could leave the customs union, subsequently stressing that no decision had been taken.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRATISLAVA, SLOVAKIA (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); SLOVAKIA (95%); POLAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               188 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Tough' Barnier to lead Brexit talks

BYLINE: John Downing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 268 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: minister and EU Commissioner Michel Barnier has been named as a negotiator in the upcoming EU-UK Brexit talks.
The move was greeted with coolness in Britain, where Mr Barnier is remembered as a harsh critic of financial practices in the City of London during his term in Brussels.
The appointment, announced by the policy-guiding European Commission, also means that confusion persists about which of the EU institutions will take the lead in the upcoming Brexit talks.
The European Council, which provides back-up to EU leaders' summit meetings, has already announced a lead negotiator - to the dismay of EU Commission President, Jean Claude Juncker.
Mr Barnier is a long-time French Gaullist politician who served as Foreign and EU Affairs Minister before going to the Commission in 2010 to take over financial services regulation. He succeeded Irish Commissioner Charlie McCreevy and was in turn succeeded by UK nominee Andrew Hill, who resigned in the wake of the Brexit Leave vote on June 23.
Initial reactions in Dublin were that Mr Barnier is a tough negotiator, but is focused on a good outcome. But sources noted it was still unclear how much input he will have in the actual outcome. But former EU Affairs Minister Gay Mitchell, who worked with Mr Barnier on preparations of the 1998 EU Treaty of Amsterdam, said he is "an excellent choice".
Mr Mitchell also pointed out that Britain's Brexit Minister, David Davis, met Mr Barnier during the 1998 Treaty preparations and they had a good relationship. He said Mr Barnier was "a good negotiator" with a good knowledge of agriculture and financial services.
Graphic
EU negotiator Michel Barnier


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               189 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK car manufacturing hits high but industry warns of Brexit effect; 900,000 cars were built in first six months of year - the most since 2000 - but industry figures say the outlook is uncertain

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 469 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: British car manufacturing hit a 16-year high in the first half of 2016, but the industry says future growth, jobs and investment are at risk following the Brexit vote.
Almost 900,000 cars rolled off production lines at UK factories in the first six months of the year, 13% more than the same period in 2015. 
It was the best half-year performance since 2000, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT), as billions of pounds of earlier investment in new models came to fruition.
About 78% of the cars built in UK factories in the first half-year were destined for other countries, with the EU the biggest market.
Mike Hawes, the SMMT's chief executive, said the outlook for UK car manufacturing was uncertain now that Britain had opted to pursue a future outside the EU.
"The latest increase in production output is the result of investment decisions made over a number of years, well before the referendum was even a prospect. 
"These decisions were based on many factors but primarily on tariff-free access to the single market, economic stability and record levels of productivity from a highly skilled workforce. To ensure the sector's continued growth, and with it the thousands of jobs it supports, these must be priorities in future negotiations."
The SMMT said a survey of its members - which include major car manufacturers such as Nissan, Toyota and Mini as well as smaller businesses - showed companies were worried about Britain's relationship with the rest of Europe following the Brexit vote.
About 60% of parts supplied for cars built in the UK are imported, mainly from the continent. Of the members the SMMT surveyed, 57% believed Brexit would have a negative impact on their business. 
The biggest concern was the potential negative impact of tariffs, custom charges and other barriers between the UK and the EU single market.
Other major concerns included a loss of access to EU trade deals, having no say in - but being bound by - regulations in their biggest export market, and the loss of access to skilled workers from within the EU.
"The UK automotive manufacturing sector has grown dramatically over the past few years and now employs 169,000 people, including many skilled EU nationals recruited to fill vacancies which the local labour force could not meet. 
The lack of certainty regarding the future status of these workers in the UK was cited frequently as a concern," the SMMT said.
The British car industry has enjoyed a prolonged period of growth. Last month alone, car production rose by 10.4% to almost 159,000 vehicles, the highest number for June since 1998. 
                     Sales of new cars in the UK fell for only the second time in more than four years in June, in a sign that British consumers were feeling less confident about spending money on big items.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               190 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK stocks are not cheap enough given the Brexit unknowns

BYLINE: John Authers

SECTION: SMART MONEY; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 925 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A week is a long time in UK politics. So said Harold Wilson, a former prime minister, and the month since the vote to leave the EU feels like a lifetime. But extraordinary political volatility has been accompanied by calm on the markets. How to explain this, and how to take advantage?
The initial response - a 10 per cent fall in sterling against the dollar that more than doubled its previous greatest daily decline in the post- Bretton Woods era - has proved a one-off adjustment. Sterling remains almost exactly where it was at dawn on June 24. A brief further decline was arrested when Theresa May sewed up the prime ministership swiftly.
It has not fallen into the abyss, as many feared. Neither has it recovered. Instead, hovering around $1.31, it has found a range it had not seen in for more than three decades, about 10 per cent below its pre-referendum range.
Fears that this dislocation would cause a systemic crisis have been quashed. International stocks sold off for a few days but then rebounded. The S&P 500 in the US has even set a new record . After a brief spike the Vix volatility index is significantly lower than just before the referendum.
Measured in pounds, UK stock indices have regained their position of June 23. As Jonathan Stubbs of Citigroup points out, the one-off sterling devaluation has driven a one-off revaluation of the earnings prospects for UK exporters and multinationals.
Entering the referendum, FTSE 100 earnings had dipped 50 per cent since 2012, even as dividends had risen - an unsustainable situation. Since the beginning of June expected earnings for this and the next two years have been written up by $16bn, says Mr Stubbs. The five sectors whose 2017 earnings forecasts have been written upwards the most - energy, mining, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, tobacco and beverages - derive at least 60 per cent of their profits from outside Europe.
The growing likelihood of more stimulus from the Bank of England also helps share valuations. But much of this has to do with money illusion, and the joys of denominating in a weak currency. Over the past year the FTSE 100 is up 3.3 per cent and the FTSE 250 has dropped less than 1 per cent. The FTSE-All World index excluding the UK is up 17.8 per cent in sterling terms, with most of the gap opening since the referendum.
Sterling has taken the strain. The devaluation has kept other assets afloat. As Simon Derrick at BNY Mellon points out, it was ever thus. British authorities have always been content to let a devaluation come to the rescue , and rare exceptions - such as Winston Churchill's decision to rejoin the gold standard and John Major's to enter the European exchange rate mechanism - have been quickly reversed. For now a 10 per cent sterling devaluation has been enough to contain the political uncertainty.
But investors are plainly worried about something when it comes to the UK. Gold, when measured in pounds, took a sharp leg higher and has barely retraced any of it. Ditto gilt yields, with less than 1 per cent for the 10-year.
The concern is what happens next. We now know, as was not at all clear on referendum day, that the Rubicon does not need to be crossed for a while. Article 50, which starts a two-year process of departing from the union, has not been invoked, nor will it be this year.
It is also clear that the range of potential Brexits is wide. A very market-friendly outcome, in which the UK maintains much the same access to the single European market, is possible. So is an isolationist disaster, as far as the market is concerned, in which the UK severs its trade links with the Continent, and crucially gives up on UK banks' ability to "passport" into the EU, in return for less migration.
The dilemma is almost identical to the schism in the US Republican party, pitting anti-immigration populists against pro-trade financiers and business interests. For the next few months, until a decision on Article 50, it is reasonable to expect UK assets to maintain their holding pattern.
Where does that leave investors? For those who must hold sterling-denominated securities, exporters and multinationals are the best bet. For international investors, sterling's current valuation may be fair.
Equity valuations are low enough to protect against a fair amount of downside, but not compellingly so. According to Research Affiliates, UK stocks are at a multiple of 11 times average earnings for the past decade, compared with a median since 1969 of 15. This is cheaper than France or Germany (both 15 and at much the same discount to their median), but only slightly cheaper than the Europe, Australasia and the Far East region as a whole, which at 13 is far below its median of 22.
The political risks, at least in the short and medium terms, look asymmetric. Nightmare scenarios, such as an exodus from the City and a renewed run on sterling when Article 50 is invoked, could happen in months.
Benefits from Brexit - such as lighter regulation and an invigorated ability to make trade deals - would take years to come to fruition. Tighter curbs on immigration might benefit Main Street in the UK but at the expense of Wall Street. And any decision to abandon the Brexit project - which the market would probably cheer - would lead to political uncertainty to dwarf the drama of the past month.
The next few months in UK politics could feel like many lifetimes - especially for those who expose themselves to UK assets. At present prices, the market gives investors no compelling reason to take on those risks.
john.authers@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               191 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Unemployment forecast to rise in wake of Brexit

BYLINE: Greig Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 532 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Unemployment in Scotland has been forecast to rise while economic growth stalls as a result of the Brexit vote, according to research published today. The Fraser of Allander Institute suggested Scotland may fall into a technical recession - two consecutive quarters of negative growth - but is likely to avoid a longer downturn while negotiations with the EU take place.
The institute, based at Strathclyde University, had cut its growth predictions before the referendum as a result of weaker household spending, slowing global growth and concerns over export performance, and has revised those expectations further downwards.
In a specially produced Brexit edition of its quarterly economic commentary, the FAI said GDP growth will be 0.9 per cent this year, a 0.5 per cent fall from its forecast at the start of last month. It has pencilled in growth of 0.5 per cent for next year, followed by 0.7 per cent in 2018, a cut of 1.4 per cent and 1.3 per cent respectively.
Graeme Roy, director of the FAI, said: "Following the referendum result we predict a significant slowing in the rate of growth in the Scottish economy. The combination of economic and policy uncertainty coupled with the longerterm structural consequences for trade and investment from leaving the European Union, make the outlook much more pessimistic than before.
"Given Scotland's fragile economic performance over the past 18 months, the impact of the EU referendum result is exactly what the Scottish economy did not need."
The researchers believe unemployment will hit a peak of about 7 per cent next year. Most recent official data puts unemployment at 6.2 per cent but the FAI report believes that will rise to 6.5 per cent by the end of this year, peak in 2017 and fall to 6.8 per cent in 2018.
"The top priority has to be retaining access to the single market, which will help mitigate some of the most damaging effects on investment, trade, productivity and jobs," Professor Roy said. "Whether or not this can be achieved without freedom of movement is highly uncertain."
The FAI outlined in its summary the potential for Brexit to confine Scotland to a lower long-term growth rate if productivity is permanently affected. It said: "There is strong evidence that international investment helps boost productivity by supporting innovation and the transfer of new ideas. Similarly trade can boost competition, encouraging firms to become more efficient. If these dynamic effects were to occur, the damage would be even greater."
It also suggested that some businesses will thrive in the new conditions while there is also an opportunity to overhaul economic policy in Scotland.
The FAI this month published a snap survey in which almost two thirds of Scottish companies said they expected that leaving the European Union would be bad for them.
The EY Item Club has also suggested that Scotland's economic growth was likely to slow as a result of Brexit.
Last week official data showed that Scotland's economy did not grow during the first three months of this year, although there was an upwards revision for 2015, from 1.9 per cent growth to 2.1 per cent.
7% Number of jobless at peak next year Fraser of Allander Institute


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (97%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               192 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Upbeat Taylor Wimpey brushes off post-Brexit fears; Construction

BYLINE: Judith Evans, Property Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 519 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: FTSE 100 housebuilder Taylor Wimpey said trading since the EU referendum had been "in line with normal seasonal patterns" despite signs that the prospect of Brexit was weighing on the broader UK housing market.
A "small increase" in cancellations after the vote was rapidly followed by a return to "recent low levels", while the group's net private sales rate was normal for the time of year, it said.
Shares in the top-three housebuilder rose 4 per cent in early trading yesterday following the relatively upbeat bulletin on post-referendum business, which accompanied Taylor Wimpey's first-half results.
It also boosted the shares of other housebuilders including Persimmon, which was up 3 per cent.
Taylor Wimpey's robust trading contrasts with profit warnings issued by two estate agents, Foxtons and LSL, since the vote, and early indicators of a slowdown in the market for second-hand homes.
Shares in housebuilders were sold off heavily after the Brexit vote on fears of a housing market slump.
"Everybody thinks the world changed on June 23, but our experience in the first month is that for many of our customers, they feel very little has really changed," said Pete Redfern , Taylor Wimpey's chief executive.
During the month since the EU referendum, Taylor Wimpey's net private sales rate has been 0.65, in line with the time of year; over the year to date the rate was 0.77, down slightly from 0.78 a year earlier.
The group cautioned that the Brexit vote may still present longer-term risks. "It is still too early to assess what long- term impact the EU referendum result will have on the UK housing market," it said.
The builder added that it had changed its approach to land investment since the vote, "significantly" increasing the investment margin and return expectations it requires before buying land, as it adopts a more cautious approach.
"This doesn't necessarily mean we will buy less over the next 18 months but it might be skewed to 2017 rather than 2016," said Mr Redfern.
The group is likely to increase its rates of housebuilding more slowly than it would otherwise have done, he added.
In a further sign of confidence, Taylor Wimpey confirmed it would pay a special dividend of £300m, or about 9.2p a share, in July 2017 as well as an interim dividend of 0.53p a share in October. It confirmed its profit and dividend targets for the coming two years.
The group increased adjusted pre-tax profit by 12.1 per cent to £266.6m in the six months to June from a year earlier, and boosted its order book by 16 per cent to £2.2bn, excluding joint ventures.
Anthony Codling, an analyst at Jefferies, said he believed the Help to Buy scheme, which provides government-backed loans to homebuyers, would support housebuilders in the post-referendum period.
"In our view Help to Buy is key differentiator between the new-build market and the one for existing homes," he said.
Taylor Wimpey completed 6,019 homes, 3 per cent up from a year earlier, in the first half and sold its homes at prices 5.8 per cent higher, averaging £238,000.
The housebuilder's shares were up 6.2 per cent at 153.9p in afternoon trading.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               193 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Visit our upgraded smartphone app and website The latest news, comment and analysis of Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 15 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Visit our upgraded smartphone app and website The latest news, comment and analysis of Brexit


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               194 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 28, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What does passport rush mean for us?; Amid the post-Brexit demand for Irish citizenship, it is time to reassess what membership of our nation should entail

BYLINE: Christopher Kissane, David Kenny

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1023 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: We live in unpredictable times, but Irish people could be forgiven for thinking recent reports that Ian Paisley jnr was encouraging his constituents to apply for Irish citizenship were a joke. Yet, like many savvy British politicians, Paisley was simply adapting quickly to the uncertainty and upheaval of Brexit. The impending demise of Britons' rights to travel, live, and work across the EU has sent people across the United Kingdom rummaging through their attics for evidence of entitlement to an EU passport. 
The huge Irish diaspora in the UK means Ireland is the biggest focus of these efforts: anyone with a grandparent born in Ireland is entitled to claim Irish citizenship, and the numbers entitled to that status in Britain may exceed the entire population of Ireland. While millions of applications are unlikely, the Irish Embassy in London and the Passport Office have already been deluged, leading the Minister for Foreign Affairs to appeal for calm, the hiring of hundreds of staff, and scarce application forms being sold on eBay.
Beyond finding logistical ways to deal with the surge of interest, it is also important for us to ask what implications the situation has for our views of Irish citizenship and nationhood. Some may bristle that the intention of including those of Irish descent in our citizenship was to accept the scattered and partitioned nature of our nation, not to offer a badge of convenience for self-identifying Britons whose EU rights have been forfeited by British voters. Many will be even more uncomfortable with hardline unionists in Ulster taking up Irish citizenship despite long-standing hostility towards the State. 
Such concerns misunderstand the expansive nature and history of Irish nationhood. Citizenship is at the heart of our independence, a foundational idea for the 1916 Proclamation, the 1922 Free State constitution and our current Constitution. Irish citizenship was a radical idea for a British empire that did not possess such a republican concept and, even after independence, its status was disputed. For many years, the UK continued to insist Irish "citizens" were actually "British subjects", and lobbied for Irish passports to be rejected so Irish people would have to travel on British passports. In 1939, Britain opposed references to king and commonwealth being removed from a new Irish passport design. The status "citizen of Ireland", and the document which bears it, are symbols of our freedom and nationhood
Cultural heritage
 The Constitution has a broad notion of that nation, including in its membership those born in Northern Ireland, and cherishing a close and special link with those of Irish ancestry living abroad who share our "cultural identity and heritage". Our inclusive citizenship helps us reach across the Border and overseas to embrace those who wish to feel part of our nation even though they do not dwell in the State. It seeks to foster a sense of community and belonging between all members of the Irish "family", wherever they may be. This openness is vitally important to a state plagued by emigration and division, often as much the homeland of a scattered and partitioned nation as the citizens' republic of our grandparents' dreams.  
At home, too, there have been imperfections and inequalities. Until 1986, our citizenship laws were heavily gendered, reflecting the deeply patriarchal nature of our State and society. 
A surge in those wanting to "become Irish" (as one soon-to-be-Irish New York Times journalist put it recently) presents an opportunity to move beyond past imperfections towards the broad citizenship we have always promised. 
Many of those seeking a Brexit passport share a major part of contemporary Irish identity: they wish to be European citizens. Ireland has sewn the EU into its fabric, and its future lies in Europe. We should be happy to welcome those who, as well as sharing part of this country's past, aspire to be a part of that shared future.
We must also rediscover that citizenship is a combination of what the Free State constitution called "privileges" and "obligations". This is true both for individual citizens - who have a duty to actively contribute to their nation - and for the State, which has clear post-Brexit responsibilities to citizens outside the State. The constitutional status of Northern Ireland is being changed against the democratic wishes of its people, and we must lead European opposition to a "hard" border being reimposed on this island. 
Oireachtas representation
 We must also finally find a way to give voice to citizens who have previously lived in the State but now live abroad. Votes in presidential elections would be an important "first step", but some degree of Oireachtas representation is vital. Our European partners offer many viable models to follow, from Poland's postal voting to France and Italy's overseas constituencies. Citizenship cannot be a dead letter.  
The awakening of "hibernating" citizenship among those with Irish grandparents must also spur action on the rights of EU nationals living in Ireland. Despite being our fellow citizens in the broader European project, their political rights remain limited, while the too-often limited rights of other immigrants living and working in the State also require attention. Despite growth, our population still lags behind that of other small European states, and immigration is key to our future: we already have one of the highest rates of naturalisation in the world. We need a broad conversation of what we want Irish nationhood to be, alongside, not in opposition to, ancestral claims of citizenship. 
Brexit brings great risks for Ireland, as our nearest neighbour seemingly turns away from openness and the wider world, but it can be an opportunity for us to embrace an expansive, inclusive Irish citizenship. As we reach a century of independence, it is time to discuss what membership in our nation is to mean.
 Dr Christopher Kissane is a historian of citizenship at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Dr David Kenny is assistant professor of constitutional law at Trinity College Dublin


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               195 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 29, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brace yourselves - Brexit will take years ... and years

BYLINE: John Downing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 432 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: HOW long will it take for this Brexit business to be finalised? Well, the short answer is that it depends on who you ask; the honest answer is that right now nobody knows. But nobody thinks it can be done quickly.
The head of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Roberto Azevedo, scared the stripes out of many people last month when he noted that it took Russia 20 years to negotiate its membership terms of that body.
"It is very difficult to predict," he said. "Russia's accession to the WTO took 20 years. Other negotiations happened faster.
"It will be a very high-risk bet that negotiations would be quickly completed and that negotiations would be uneventful."
It all brings a discouraging prospect of continuing economic uncertainty.
People can be misled by talk of a two-year timeframe to complete this EU-UK divorce and the framing of new arrangements. It took 43 years of incremental work on agreements involving the UK and the other member states to get to where we are. So unpicking it will be complex and time-consuming.
The process is governed by Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty, which only came into force in 2009. That provision is suitably vague, has never been used before and some people suspect that it was framed specifically to make an EU exit difficult.
British Prime Minister Theresa May is no hurry to trigger Article 50 for various reasons and may wait well into next year to do so.
It is London's sole prerogative to decide when it is triggered. Once that is done, the last piece of real UK power is used up.
Another factor in Mrs May's playing for time is that once Article 50 is triggered, the UK is then shut out from all the EU's workings.
But the main rationale behind delay is an effort to take stock of what Britain actually wants and what realistically might be achievable in marathon negotiations.
Once Article 50 has been triggered, the UK has two years to negotiate withdrawal. If a time extension is needed this will require the unanimous agreement of the other member states. Leaving without a deal would mean that WTO rules applied.
Brexit Minister David Davis has suggested that the UK could formally sever its relationship with the EU by December 2018. However, on Wednesday, as he threw a big spanner into the works, the International Trade Minister Liam Fox mentioned 2020 as a completion date.
British Chancellor Philip Hammond, who wanted Britain to remain in the EU, has suggested that it could take up to six years for the UK to complete exit.
The entire deal will also have to be ratified in each of the member states - which will further delay things.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               196 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 29, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit a factor in 3,000 job cuts   Lloyds

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 170 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Lloyds Banking Group said yesterday it would accelerate its cost-cutting plan to help offset a more testing economic environment and a likely drop in demand for credit caused by Britain's vote to leave the European Union.
Britain's largest retail bank announced plans to save £400 million (EUR 474 million) by the end of 2017 by axing a further 3,000 jobs and closing an additional 200 branches to protect its earnings and ambitious dividend profile against lower-for-longer interest rates.
Chief executive officer Antonio Horta-Osório is searching for ways to prop up shareholder returns and sustain profit growth.
So far this year, Lloyds had already said it would cut about 4,000 positions from its 75,000-strong workforce. 
The bank also said it would look to streamline its non-branch property portfolio by about 30 per cent by the end of 2018.
Lloyds reported a first-half statutory pretax profit of £2.45 billion in the six months to June 30th, more than double the sum achieved in the same period last year. - (Reuters)


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               197 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 29, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit bout reunites sparring partners; Davis v Barnier: Divorce talks

BYLINE: Alex Barker in Brussels and George Parker in London

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 791 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit talks are set to reunite two sparring partners from a bygone European battle.
Michel Barnier's appointment as the European Commission's chief negotiator primes him for a contest with British counterpart David Davis, a similarly headstrong politician he first clashed with more than 20 years ago.
Both then served as Europe ministers, representing France and Britain respectively on a "reflection group" established to overcome entrenched differences and pave the way for a new EU treaty.
Moving between castles in Luxembourg and an ancient nunnery on the Sicilian coast, the group struggled with what Carlos Westendorp, a veteran Spanish diplomat, called "an almost impossible exercise".
Today, Brexit poses a similarly daunting challenge for Mr Barnier and Mr Davis, albeit one that will probably be fought out in far less salubrious Brussels office buildings.
For all their political differences in the 1990s, the Gaullist former French foreign minister and Thatcherite Brexit Eurosceptic share some traits that have taken them on oddly similar political journeys.
Both are proud political fighters with chequered careers, including abrupt stints in the political wilderness. Both are accused by critics of vanity and lacking attention to detail, yet have proven abilities to cut political deals. And both enter the Brexit talks, the negotiation of a lifetime, questioning whether they will have the authority they need to do the job.
In the 1990s, Mr Davis revelled in his reputation as "Monsieur Non" on that reflection group, where his efforts to stem the flow of powers to Brussels established him as a favourite of the Conservative right. At the time Elmar Brok, a federalist German MEP who served on the group, smarted over Mr Davis's dogged opposition to further EU centralisation, describing his position as: "Fog in the Channel, Continent is isolated."
Mr Davis, raised on a public housing estate by a single mother and with a career as a reservist in the elite Special Air Service, has always been up for a fight; his matchup with suave, winter sports-loving Mr Barnier will be an intriguing one.
Mr Barnier pointedly welcomed the "change in climate" after Tony Blair's victory in the 1997 general election that ousted the inflexible Mr Davis from his chair at a conference to draft what became the Amsterdam treaty.
Snappily dressed, hyperactive and never slow to call for bold state intervention, Mr Barnier built a reputation during his time as EU commissioner for financial regulation from 2009-2014 as a scourge of the City of London.
In the wake of the financial crisis, Mr Barnier described his mission as leading a "rulemaking spring". In one meeting he so annoyed Sir Mervyn King that the then governor of the Bank of England thumped the table.
Yet for all the potential for spectacular fights between Mr Barnier and Mr Davis, the two negotiators also have, over the years, shown some pragmatism and compromise.
Mr Westendorp, the chair of the reflection group, once remarked that Mr Davis behaved quite differently behind closed doors. Inside the talks he "acted like Douglas Hurd", the pro-EU foreign secretary, while outside, "like Michael Portillo", the Eurosceptic then defence secretary.
Gay Mitchell, who represented Ireland on the reflection group, recalls little tension between Mr Barnier and Mr Davis, in spite of their divergent views. "I worked with both of these men. They're both very able, affable and are people of integrity. I would say they are two people who could work very well together."
For all the bluster, Mr Barnier too proved able to strike deals with the UK, especially towards the end of his tenure. A proposal to revamp bank structures was, for instance, tailored to British concerns, much to the chagrin of France.
Mr Barnier was always at pains to show his anglophile side. He kept up English lessons throughout his tenure at the commission, giving his valedictory interview to the Financial Times almost entirely in English.
Critical to the success of both men will be whether their political bosses will give them the space to negotiate.
While a formidable dealmaker in the European Parliament, Mr Barnier has sometimes struggled to make headway among EU finance ministers - and during Brexit talks will fear forever being overruled by EU leaders.
Just like Mr Barnier, Mr Davis has yet to fully carve out his political responsibilities in Brexit talks and will fear being constantly trumped by Theresa May's negotiations with other EU leaders.
Should that happen, the Brexit duo might share a fate similar to the Westendorp "reflection group": rather than offer a solution, its report laid out options and left others to decide.
 Additional reporting by Arthur Beesley in London and Jim Brunsden in Brussels


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (91%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               198 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 29, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit sows doubt among foreign students; Higher education

BYLINE: Gonzalo Viña

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: More than a third of international students say they are less likely to study at a UK university following last month's vote to leave the EU, a survey has found.
Of 1,014 students surveyed this month by Hobsons, a careers advisory service, 30 per cent said they were less likely to study in the UK, while 6 per cent said they would definitely not study in the UK as a result of the vote.
Many UK universities have embarked on ambitious expansion plans that are reliant on high fees from overseas students, who typically pay twice as much as domestic students . Hobsons said 83 per cent of respondents were from outside the EU.
Income from international students is forecast to reach £4.2bn in the next academic year and £4.6bn in 2017-18, and is the biggest source of revenue growth for universities, according to the Higher Education Funding Council for England.
Universities increased their spending on new buildings by 43 per cent in the past six months compared with the previous year. Contracts have been awarded for £1.5bn of projects, five of which are worth more than £50m each. A further £2bn of contracts is planned between 2017 and 2020, according to Barbour ABI, the construction analysts.
Some students cited a less welcoming environment and a rise in racist attacks. One said: "I've heard there's been a spike in racism and xenophobia within the UK and I don't want to support that in any form." Another said: "People have become so racist and with all the ongoing circumstances, I'd not feel safe."
Reported hate crimes rose 57 per cent in the weekend after the referendum, and the National Police Chiefs' Council said last week that 6,293 such crimes had been reported to the police between mid-June and mid-July.
Jeremy Cooper, managing director of Hobsons in Europe, said: "Market conditions for international student recruitment look set to toughen and universities need to send a clear message that the UK welcomes international students, as well as providing practical guidance and support."
Almost two-thirds of students surveyed felt it would become harder for them to obtain a visa, while almost half expected it would become more difficult to get a job in the UK after graduating. Among those who said Brexit made it more likely that they would come to the UK to study, 43 per cent cited the fall in the value of the pound.
Universities UK, which lobbies on behalf of the sector, said: "Our university system will continue to be attractive and open to students and partners in all corners of the world."
Tougher policy 
Loan repayment lessons from New Zealand 
The Higher Education Policy Institute says the UK could learn from New Zealand on recouping unpaid student loans. Graduates from English universities who failed to repay loans while living abroad should, like their NZ counterparts, face criminal charges and the threat of not having their passport renewed while overseas, Hepi said. About £3bn is owed by UK and EU students now abroad.
Gonzalo Viña
US student debt bubble page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); ENGLAND (78%); EUROPE (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               199 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 29, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain's relations with Ireland need special care; May recognises that Brexit cannot put a hard-won peace at risk

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 587 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For the best part of 40 years, Ireland's relations with the UK have been cultivated within the EU to transformational effect. Old enmities have faded along with the border that once divided north and south. Under the umbrella of the EU both states have worked to consolidate peace in Northern Ireland in ways that alone they never achieved. Trade between the two countries has flourished. And, for the most part, they have sat on the same side in Europe, championing a liberal economic agenda and guarding transatlantic relations. London and Dublin, the protagonists of a centuries long feud, are as tight as they have ever been.
Britain's decision to leave the EU comes as a jolt, complicating the task of consolidating the achievements of the 1998 Good Friday agreement, which brought an end to the troubles in Northern Ireland , and of sustaining Ireland's recovery from the 2008 financial crash.
Although barely raised during the referendum campaign, the stability of Northern Ireland and Anglo-Irish relations could both be greatly affected by the outcome of UK negotiations to exit the EU. Theresa May, UK prime minister, was wise therefore to signal this week how important it is to maintain the positive momentum by visiting Belfast and hosting Ireland's prime minister, Enda Kenny.
Both sides have much to lose. Without the support of its outsized neighbour, Dublin may now find itself more isolated in Brussels on EU issues such as tax harmonisation, which it opposes. Although Ireland's economy is less dependent on the UK than it once was, it is still heavily so. Trade between the two countries is worth more than EUR1bn a week and is more important to the UK than business with all of Africa. Any slackening in UK growth has knock-on effects for Ireland.
For business on both sides, the downside would be more pronounced should London leave the single market in return for controls on the freedom of movement of EU nationals. That scenario could require the reimposition of the border in Ireland, although the UK and Irish prime ministers have both pledged to avoid this.
Since the Good Friday agreement, the old dividing line imposed at Irish partition in 1922 has all but disappeared. The free movement of people and goods across it, has since become a powerful symbol of how the communities of Ireland are now at ease. Repartition risks reawakening the ghosts of Irish nationalism at a time that in Ireland, as elsewhere in Europe, the centre ground in politics is shrinking and populists are already on the march. Yet the 310-mile border will be the UK's sole land frontier with the EU. To prevent EU nationals, and smugglers, from entering the UK through the back door, immigration and customs controls might have to be reimposed.
In this, the UK must weigh the priority of preserving the union against the prerogatives of Brexit. Ireland, meanwhile, is confronted by choices it did not want to make and outcomes over which it may have little say.
Maintaining the common travel area, which allows passport-free travel between the two countries, and ensuring the border remains as invisible as possible, will be priorities. So, too, will relations within the EU. Handled carefully these constraints could act as a brake on the ambitions of the more radical Brexiters who favour a clean departure from the EU.
Brussels once bent over to ensure bureaucracy did not get in the way of the Good Friday agreement. The utmost care will be required from all sides to ensure that nothing jeopardises that rare achievement.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (78%); IE Ireland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               200 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 29, 2016 Friday 10:12 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: British Airways owner IAG lowers profits forecast on Brexit and terror; IAG has scaled back expansion plans for the next six months

BYLINE: Julia Kollewe

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 416 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: British Airways owner IAG has reported disappointing profits and lowered its full-year forecast, blaming terror attacks, the Brexit vote and strikes for a downturn in travel.
International Airlines Group, which also owns Iberia, Vueling and Aer Lingus, had forecast in February that 2016 profits would rise by 40% to more than (EURO)900m (£757m), but is now forecasting a "low double digit" percent rise. It was quick to warn on profits the day after the Brexit vote on 23 June, having already suffered weak trading in the runup to the poll.
The company's share price, which has fallen sharply from 528p on 23 June, was up about 1.5% on Friday morning at 416p.
Britain's decision to leave the European Union has triggered a sharp fall in the value of the pound versus the dollar and the euro, making it more expensive for Britons to travel abroad. It has also caused a slump in consumer confidence. The latest poll from market researchers GfK recorded the biggest slide in sentiment for more than 26 years in July.
IAG posted an operating profit before one-off items of (EURO)555m in the second quarter, up from (EURO)530m a year earlier, but less than the (EURO)562m predicted by analysts. The group took a currency hit of (EURO)148m in the quarter, mainly due to the weak pound, as it reports its results in euros. Traditionally, the quarter is the most profitable part of the year.
The company has scaled back expansion plans for the next six months and is reviewing plans for capacity growth and spending next year. 
Willie Walsh, the chief executive, said: "Numerous external factors affected our airlines including the impact of terrorism, uncertainty around the UK's EU referendum and Spain's political situation and increased weakness in Latin American economies. This led to a softer than expected trading environment, especially in June. In addition, the airlines' operations have been considerably disrupted by 22 air traffic control strikes in Europe so far this year. This has impacted our passenger revenues."
Other airlines such as easyJet, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM  have also warned about the impact of terrorism and a failed coup in Turkey on travel. In addition, the air traffic control strikes and bad weather in Europe led to more than a thousand flights being cancelled. IAG expects to book disruption costs of at least (EURO)80m in the second half of the year, with an additional impact on revenues.
Shares in IAG have lost about a third of their value since the start of the year. 


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%); SPAIN (68%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               201 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Red Box What's next for Brexit Britain

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; OFFERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 22 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ? Wake up to our free morning email Matt Chorley guides you through the day's essential political stories www.thetimes.co.uk /redboxemail


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               202 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ryder Cup hopefuls hit by Brexit; Fall in value of the pound means Open prize money is worth fewer euros - and fewer ranking points

BYLINE: John Westerby

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 710 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Henrik Stenson is unlikely to lose any sleep over it, his long wait for a major title at an end and a hefty cheque to go with the claret jug after his epic duel with Phil Mickelson on Sunday, but his winnings at Royal Troon would have been greater still were it not for the Brexit vote.
Although the prize money given to the Open Championship winner rose to £1,175,000 this year, some £25,000 more than Zach Johnson collected at St Andrews last year, the fall in the value of the pound means that Stenson will take home considerably less than Johnson.
By the time he has converted his purse into dollars - Stenson lives in Orlando, Florida - he will find that the winnings are some $245,100 (£184,900) less than Johnson's takehome pay 12 months ago.
Still, a prize of $1,549,590 is a handsome pay packet for four days' work, a reward for prevailing in one of the most compelling final rounds seen at a major.
The Brexit effect on the Troon prize fund will be felt more keenly, though, by European players hovering around the fringes of Ryder Cup selection.
On one of the lists that determines which players qualify as one of the nine automatic selections at the end of next month, the European points list, one point equates to one euro of prize money collected during the season.
So those European players who enjoyed a decent payday by finishing towards the top of the leaderboard at Troon, such as Andy Sullivan, Tyrrell Hatton, Andrew Johnston and Soren Kjeldsen, have not advanced their cause as much as they would have done before the pound's plummet.
Sullivan, the world No 35 from Nuneaton, finished tied for 12th at Troon to consolidate his place among the top nine that Darren Clarke, the Europe captain, will take to Hazeltine in September. But he will hope for a strong performance in the US PGA Championship, which starts a week on Thursday at Baltusrol, in New Jersey, to prevent him having to look over his shoulder.
Kjeldsen, who finished ninth at Troon, remains on the fringes along with Hatton, knowing that perhaps only a high placing at Baltusrol will give them a chance of breaking into the top nine, knowing too that Clarke's three captain's picks are likely to go to more experienced players.
Stenson's final round of 63 on Sunday, which earned him victory by three strokes over Mickelson, was described by Jack Nicklaus yesterday as "one of the greatest rounds I have ever seen". The viewing figures for the final-day climax, though, showed the expected sharp drop in the first year of Sky's live coverage of the tournament.
Peak viewing figures on Sunday were around 1.2 million, compared with the 4.7 million who watched Johnson's victory on the BBC on the extra day at St Andrews last year. The highlights package on BBC Two on Sunday attracted about 1.5 million viewers.
Gareth Lord, Stenson's caddie from Coventry, said yesterday that he would give up smoking, keeping his part of a bargain if Stenson won a major.
"We were on the seventh tee, I was drawing on a cigarette and Henrik said, 'Enjoy that. You have about two and a half hours left'," Lord said. "But he's kept his half of the deal, now I will do my bit."
Lord felt that the 50ft putt from the fringe of the fifteenth green, which extended Stenson's lead to two shots, was the moment he knew his man was destined for glory.
"I thought you don't hole putts like that if it isn't your time," Lord said. "I thought, 'Come on, let's finish it now, this one is for us'."
The race for the Ryder Cup Europe's 12 will be chosen from the top four players on the European points list on August 28, the top five on the world points list not already qualified through the European points list, and three discretionary picks for captain Darren Clarke European points list 1 Rory McIlroy 2 Danny Willett 3 Henrik Stenson, left 4 Chris Wood 5 Andy Sullivan 6 Matt Fitzpatrick 7 Rafa Cabrera-Bello 8 Soren Kjeldsen 9 Victor Dubuisson 10 Thorbjorn Olesen World points list 1 Henrik Stenson 2 Rory McIlroy 3 Danny Willett 4 Sergio Garcia, left 5 Rafa Cabrera-Bello 6 Justin Rose 7 Chris Wood 8 Andy Sullivan 9 Matt Fitzpatrick 10 Lee Westwood Selected others Shane Lowry (11 on European list, 13 on world list) Tyrrell Hatton (13 &17) Martin Kaymer (15 &15) Andrew Johnston (25 &24) Graeme McDowell (41 &18)
Graphic
Johnston's Ryder Cup hopes have not been helped by Brexit despite his Open showing


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); EUROPE (55%); UNITED STATES (52%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               203 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ryder Cup hopefuls hit by Brexit; The fall in the value of the pound means Open prize money is worth fewer euros - and fewer ranking points

BYLINE: John Westerby

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 710 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Henrik Stenson is unlikely to lose any sleep over it, his long wait for a major title at an end and a hefty cheque to go with the claret jug after his epic duel with Phil Mickelson on Sunday, but his winnings at Royal Troon would have been greater still were it not for the Brexit vote.
Although the prize money given to the Open Championship winner rose to £1,175,000 this year, some £25,000 more than Zach Johnson collected at St Andrews last year, the fall in the value of the pound means that Stenson will take home considerably less than Johnson.
By the time he has converted his purse into dollars - Stenson lives in Orlando - he will find that the winnings are some $245,100 (£184,900) less than Johnson's takehome pay 12 months ago.
Still, a prize of $1,549,590 is a handsome pay packet for four days' work, a reward for prevailing in one of the most compelling final rounds seen at a major.
The Brexit effect on the Troon prize fund will be felt more keenly, though, by European players hovering around the fringes of Ryder Cup selection.
On one of the lists that determines which players qualify as one of the nine automatic selections at the end of next month, the European points list, one point equates to one euro of prize money collected during the season.
So those European players who enjoyed a decent payday by finishing towards the top of the leaderboard at Troon, such as Andy Sullivan, Tyrrell Hatton, Andrew Johnston and Soren Kjeldsen, have not advanced their cause as much as they would have done before the pound's plummet.
Sullivan, the world No 35 from Nuneaton, finished tied for 12th at Troon to consolidate his place among the top nine that Darren Clarke, the Europe captain, will take to Hazeltine in September. But he will hope for a strong performance in the US PGA Championship, which starts a week on Thursday at Baltusrol, New Jersey, to prevent him having to look over his shoulder.
Kjeldsen, who finished ninth at Troon, remains on the fringes along with Hatton, knowing that perhaps only a high placing at Baltusrol will give them a chance of breaking into the top nine, knowing too that Clarke's three captain's picks are likely to go to more experienced players.
Stenson's final round of 63 on Sunday, which earned him victory by three strokes over Mickelson, was described by Jack Nicklaus yesterday as "one of the greatest rounds I have ever seen". The viewing figures for the final-day climax, though, showed the expected sharp drop in the first year of Sky's live coverage of the tournament.
Peak viewing figures on Sunday were around 1.2 million, compared with the 4.7 million who watched Johnson's victory on the BBC on the extra day at St Andrews last year. The highlights package on BBC 2 on Sunday attracted about 1.5 million viewers.
Gareth Lord, Stenson's caddie, from Coventry, said yesterday that he would be giving up smoking, keeping his part of a bargain if Stenson were to win a major.
"We were on the seventh tee, I was drawing on a cigarette and Henrik said, 'Enjoy that. You have about two and a half hours left'," Lord said. "But he's kept his half of the deal, now I will do my bit."
Lord felt that the 50ft putt from the fringe of the fifteenth green, which extended Stenson's lead to two shots, was the moment he knew his man was destined for glory.
"I thought you don't hole putts like that if it isn't your time," Lord said. "I thought, 'Come on, let's finish it now, this one is for us'."
The race for the Ryder Cup Europe's 12 will be chosen from the top four players on the European points list on August 28, the top five on the world points list not already qualified through the European points list, and three discretionary picks for captain Darren Clarke European points list 1 Rory McIlroy 2 Danny Willett 3 Henrik Stenson, left 4 Chris Wood 5 Andy Sullivan 6 Matt Fitzpatrick 7 Rafa Cabrera-Bello 8 Soren Kjeldsen 9 Victor Dubuisson 10 Thorbjorn Olesen World points list 1 Henrik Stenson 2 Rory McIlroy 3 Danny Willett 4 Sergio Garcia, left 5 Rafa Cabrera-Bello 6 Justin Rose 7 Chris Wood 8 Andy Sullivan 9 Matt Fitzpatrick 10 Lee Westwood Selected others Shane Lowry (11 on European list, 13 on world list) Tyrrell Hatton (13 &17) Martin Kaymer (15 &15) Andrew Johnston (25 &24) Graeme McDowell (41 &18)
Graphic
Johnston's Ryder Cup hopes have not been helped by Brexit despite his Open showing


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (71%); EUROPE (55%); UNITED STATES (52%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               204 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May does not intend to trigger article 50 this year, court told; Government lawyers at first legal challenge to process of Brexit suggest case is likely to go to supreme court

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 805 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May does not intend to trigger article 50 of the Lisbon treaty initiating the UK's departure from the European Union before the end of 2016, the high court has been told.
At the opening of the first legal challenge to the process of Brexit, government lawyers suggested that the highly sensitive case is likely to be appealed to the supreme court.
At least seven private actions arguing that only parliament, and not the prime minister, has the authority to invoke article 50 have been identified to the court.
Confirming that the UK is not aiming to push the exit button until next year at the earliest, Jason Coppel QC, for the government, conceded that there was "some urgency" to the issue.
The defendant resisting the action will be David Davis, the new Brexit secretary. 
No question of whether the court has jurisdiction was raised at the opening of the hearing. Sir Brian Leveson, one of the judges in charge of the directions hearing, said the full trial would be in October.
So many lawyers are participating in the legal challenge that the proceedings were moved to the lord chief justice's wood-panelled gothic-style courtroom, the largest in the Royal Courts of Justice.
The court ordered that the lead case for the legal challenge should be the one brought by an investment manager, Gina Miller, who lives in London.
Her claim is being coordinated by the law firm Mishcon de Reya. She attended the hearing and afterwards said: "We believe in a fair society. This is very much along the lines of my belief [as a remain voter]."
Lord Pannick QC, who is instructed by Mishcon de Reya, said the law firm had been subjected to racist and antisemitic abuse.
"The publicity that has accompanied notification of the legal issue has provoked a large quantity of abuse directed at my solicitors, Mishcon de Reya," Pannick said.
"It's racist abuse, it's antisemitic abuse and it's objectionable. It's contempt of court for people to make threats [in relation to live proceedings]. We have asked that the names of those people who are making the claims should be redacted.
"People have been deterred from [making legal claims] by the abuse. It's a very serious criminal matter for people to make threats."
Lord Leveson agreed that interfering with the course of justice by making threats was "an extremely serious matter".
Brexit supporters staged a demonstration outside Mishcon de Reya's London office on Thursday with a banner and placards declaring: "Invoke article 50 now" and "Uphold the Brexit vote".
One challenge has been brought by Deir Dos Santos, a British citizen who works as a hairdresser. He has been subjected to internet abuse since his involvement was revealed.
The Dos Santos claim argues: "The result of the referendum is not legally binding in the sense that it is advisory only and there is no obligation [on the government] to give effect to the referendum decision.
"However, the [previous] prime minister has stated on numerous occasions that it is his intention to give effect to the referendum decision and organise the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union.
"The extract from [Cameron's] resignation speech... makes it clear that [the government] is of the view that the prime minister of the day has the power under article 50 (2) of the Lisbon treaty to trigger article 50 without reference to parliament." 
The government says its powers are based on the royal prerogative. 
That approach, Santos's lawyers maintain, is "ultra vires" - beyond the legitimate powers of the government - because under the UK's constitutional requirements, notification to the EU council of withdrawal "can only be given with the prior authorisation of the UK parliament".
Dominic Chambers QC, an expert in international and commercial law from Maitland Chambers in London, and Jessica Simor QC, of Matrix Chambers, are acting for Dos Santos. The London law firm Edwin Coe is coordinating the Dos Santos case. The government will be represented by James Eadie QC and Coppel. 
 Related:  Deadline approaches for government response to Brexit legal challenge
Lawyers representing Britons living in France are expected to join the case. 
The majority of MPs at Westminster are in favour of Britain remaining inside the EU. Moves to hand parliament ultimate authority over article 50 have been criticised as a devious and underhand means of frustrating Brexit.
Santos's lawyers insist the legal challenge is concerned with the constitutional principle of parliamentary sovereignty rather than being engineered for a particular political outcome. Santos, it is said, is not seeking to challenge the result of the referendum, nor is he trying to halt Brexit.
Whether the majority of MPs who support remaining in the EU may now feel morally bound to vote in favour of Brexit if the issue comes to parliament is another question. 


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               205 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May does not intend to trigger article 50 this year, court told; Government lawyers at first legal challenge to process of Brexit suggest case is likely to go to supreme court

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 756 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May does not intend to trigger article 50 of the Lisbon treaty initiating the UK's departure from the European Union before the end of 2016, the high court has been told.
At the opening of the first legal challenge to the process of Brexit, government lawyers suggested that the highly sensitive case is likely to be appealed to the supreme court.
At least seven private actions arguing that only parliament, and not the prime minister, has the authority to invoke article 50 have been identified to the court.
Confirming that the UK is not aiming to push the exit button until next year at the earliest, Jason Coppel QC, for the government, conceded that there was "some urgency" to the issue.
The defendant resisting the action will be David Davis, the new Brexit secretary. 
No question of whether the court has jurisdiction was raised at the opening of the hearing. Sir Brian Leveson, one of the judges in charge of the directions hearing, said the full trial will be in October.
So many lawyers are participating in the legal challenge that the proceedings were moved to the lord chief justice's wood-panelled Gothic style courtroom, the largest in the Royal Courts of Justice.
Lord Pannick QC, who is instructed by Mishcon de Reya, said that the law firm, which has been coordinating one of the legal challenges, had been subjected to racist and antisemitic abuse.
"The publicity that has accompanied notification of the legal issue has provoked a large quantity of abuse directed at my solicitors, Mishcon de Reya," Pannick said.
"Its racist abuse, its antisemitic abuse and it's objectionable. It's contempt of court for people to make threats [in relation to live proceedings]. We have asked that the names of those people who are making the claims should be redacted.
"People have been deterred from [making legal claims] by the abuse. It's a very serious criminal matter for people to make threats."
Lord Leveson agreed that interfering with the course if justice by making threats was "an extremely serious matter".
Brexit supporters staged a demonstration outside Mishcon de Reya's London office on Thursday with a banner and placards declaring: "Invoke article 50 now" and "Uphold the Brexit vote".
One challenge has been brought by Deir Dos Santos, a British citizen who works as a hairdresser. He has been subjected to internet abuse since his involvement was revealed.
The Dos Santos claim argues: "The result of the referendum is not legally binding in the sense that it is advisory only and there is no obligation [on the government] to give effect to the referendum decision.
"However, the [previous] prime minister has stated on numerous occasions that it is his intention to give effect to the referendum decision and organise the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union.
"The extract from [Cameron's] resignation speech... makes it clear that [the government] is of the view that the prime minister of the day has the power under article 50 (2) of the Lisbon treaty to trigger article 50 without reference to parliament." 
The government says its powers are based on the royal prerogative. 
That approach, Santos's lawyers maintain, is "ultra vires" - beyond the legitimate powers of the government - because under the UK's constitutional requirements, notification to the EU council of withdrawal "can only be given with the prior authorisation of the UK parliament".
Dominic Chambers QC, an expert in international and commercial law from Maitland Chambers in London, and Jessica Simor QC, of Matrix Chambers, are acting for Dos Santos. The London law firm Edwin Coe is coordinating the Dos Santos case. The government will be represented by James Eadie QC and Coppel. 
 Related:  Deadline approaches for government response to Brexit legal challenge
Lawyers representing Britons living in France are expected to join the case. 
The majority of MPs at Westminster are in favour of Britain remaining inside the EU. Moves to hand parliament ultimate authority over article 50 have been criticised as a devious and underhand means of frustrating Brexit.
Santos's lawyers insist the legal challenge is concerned with the constitutional principle of parliamentary sovereignty rather than being engineered for a particular political outcome. Santos, it is said, is not seeking to challenge the result of the referendum, nor is he trying to halt Brexit.
Whether the majority of MPs who support remaining in the EU may now feel morally bound to vote in favour of Brexit if the issue comes to parliament is another question. 


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               206 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 4:15 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The world is taking its revenge against elites. When will America's wake up?; Despite the shocks - Brexit, Trump, Dallas - a complacent political class shows no sign of changing its venal ways. The consequences will be dire

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1303 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A snapshot of America in the middle of June 2016. It is several days before the first great shock of the summer, the Brexit vote, and here in America, all is serene. The threat posed by Senator Bernie Sanders has been suppressed. The Republicans have chosen a preposterous windbag to lead them; the consensus is that he will be a pushover. For all the doubts and dissent of the last year, the leadership faction of the country's professional class seem to have once again come out on top, and they are ready to accept the gratitude of the nation.
And so President Barack Obama did an interview with Business Week in which he was congratulated for his stewardship of the economy and asked "what industries" he might choose to join upon his retirement from the White House. The president replied as follows: 
 ... what I will say is that - just to bring things full circle about innovation - the conversations I have with Silicon Valley and with venture capital pull together my interests in science and organization in a way I find really satisfying. 
In relating this anecdote, I am not aiming to infuriate because the man we elected in 2008 to get tough with high finance and shut the revolving door was now talking about taking his own walk through that door and getting a job in finance. No. My object here is to describe the confident, complacent mood of the country's ruling class in the middle of last month. So let us continue.
On the morning after British voters chose to leave the European Union, Obama was in California addressing an audience at Stanford University, a school often celebrated these days as the pre-eminent educational institution of Silicon Valley. The occasion of the president's remarks was the annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit, and the substance of his speech was the purest globaloney, flavored with a whiff of vintage dotcom ebullience. Obama marveled at the smart young creative people who start tech businesses. He deplored bigotry as an impediment that sometimes keeps these smart creative people from succeeding. He demanded that more power be given to the smart young creatives who are transforming the world. Keywords included "innovation", "interconnection", and of course "Zuckerberg", the Facebook CEO, who has appeared with Obama on so many occasions and whose company is often used as shorthand by Democrats to signify everything that is wonderful about our era.
Everyone was down with the international entrepreneuriat in those sunny days. Less than a week after Obama's salute to them at Stanford, Hillary Clinton paid a visit to an innovative co-working space in Denver and rolled out a plan for rewarding this very same cohort of clear-eyed, tech-respecting citizens. "Today's dynamic and competitive global economy demands an ambitious national commitment to technology, innovation and entrepreneurship," declared the " briefing " her campaign released on that occasion; to make that commitment, Clinton proposed deferring the student loans of young people who start businesses ... because I guess the promise of tech riches isn't incentive enough.
It felt so right, this Democratic infatuation with the triumphant young global professional. So right, and for a certain class of successful Americans, so very, very obvious. What you do with winners like these is you celebrate them. Winners need to win. Winners need to have their loan payments deferred, to have venture capital directed their way by a former president. That all these gestures might actually represent self-serving behavior by an insular elite does not appear to have crossed our leaders' minds in those complacent days of June 2016.
But by the time of Hillary Clinton's speech the happy, complacent mood was already beginning to crumble. Just a few days before her salute to tech winners came Brexit, a blunt and ugly rejection of some of her cohort's most cherished ideas. A short while later came the FBI's pronouncement on Hillary Clinton's email practices, removing the threat of prosecution but not the aura of outrageous misbehavior. And then, like a drumbeat of horror, came a series of police shootings of black men, followed quickly by the murder of five policemen in Dallas. Over it all hung the fear that these events might somehow propel this unthinkable man, Donald Trump, into the White House.
The world of accepted ideas was coming apart, and no one caught the new mood better than the New York Times's David Brooks, a man who has spent his career describing the inner lives of the nation's prosperous white-collar elite. Ordinarily a dealer in witty aphorisms and upper-crust humor, Brooks now wrote a column  entitled "Are We On the Path to National Ruin?" in which he speculated darkly about the possibility of fascism in America. "The crack of some abyss opened up for a moment by the end of last week," he wrote. "It's very easy to see this country on a nightmare trajectory."
Brooks-in-despair is a pitiful sight, and one can't help but sympathize. But what's really remarkable about the response to these shocks of people like him has been their inability to acknowledge that their own satisfied white-collar class might be part of the problem. On this they are utterly in denial and whatever the disaster, the answer they give is always ... more of the same. More "innovation". More venture capital. More sharp young global Stanford entrepreneurs. There is no problem that more people like they themselves can't solve.
Consider the New York Times think-piece on the Brexit that ran on 7 July. It mocked the British government for being dominated by a tiny, incestuous circle of friends, but then reassured readers that things simply aren't like that here in the USA: "It's as if President Obama's inner circle consisted almost entirely of his friends, neighbors and fellow Harvard graduates," supposedly an impossibility. I had to read that passage over again and again to understand it, so great was the cognitive dissonance. President Obama's inner circle does consist of his fellow Harvard graduates; encouraging  Obama to appoint such people and documenting  their adventures in government has been a pundit obsession for years. Applauding Bill Clinton for doing the same with his Rhodes Scholar and Yale Law friends was also once a standard journalistic trope.
And now, here it comes again. David Brooks, trying to see a way out of the "national ruin" that hovers over us, turns back to the foundational story of how our best and brightest rose to the challenge at the turn of the last century:
 New sorts of political leaders emerged. In city after city, progressive reformers cleaned up politics and professionalized the civil service. Theodore Roosevelt went into elective politics at a time when few Ivy League types thought it was decent to do so. 
Would it change Brooks's mind to show him one of his own columns praising the man who now presides over our drift to "national ruin" for doing exactly what Brooks here suggests - ie, bringing many Ivy League types into politics with him? I doubt it, any more than it would be to ask Obama himself to take the problem of stagnant blue-collar wages into consideration before declaring, yet again, his admiration for the deeds of the global entrepreneuriat.
It's easy to see the problems presented by a cliquish elite when they happen elsewhere. In the countries of Old Europe, maybe, powerful politicians sell out grotesquely to Goldman Sachs ; but when an idealistic American president announces that he wants to seek a career in venture capital, we have trouble saying much of anything. In Britain, maybe, they have an "establishment"; but what we have in America, we think, are talented people who deserve to be on top. One wonders what kind of a shock it will take to shake us out of this meritocratic complacency once and for all.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (85%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               207 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Trump fans are fired by the spirit of Brexit; Many who wanted to leave the EU were also keen to break a failed political establishment

BYLINE: Melanie Phillips

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 905 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Flying out of Aspen, Colorado, before breakfast time a few days ago, I blearily presented my boarding pass to the security officer. "Whaddya think about Brexit?" he asked eagerly. "D'ya think it's gonna happen?" Everywhere I have been in America, where I am on a speaking tour, I have found more people than I have ever seen who are gripped by what's been going on in Britain.
It's not just an academic interest.
They all understand that the forces responsible for Brexit are broadly similar to those fuelling support for Donald Trump who, at this week's Republican convention, will be anointed the party's presidential candidate.
Among Americans there is widespread sympathy with the perceived desire by the Brits to "get their country back". They feel just the same. Many, however, find themselves on the horns of an acute electoral dilemma. Not all: dyed-inthe-wool liberals would vote for the Democratic candidate even if this were Caligula's horse. For others, the idea of not voting Republican is equally unthinkable.
I'm meeting people, however, who will "never ever" vote for Hillary Clinton because they see her as irredeemably corrupt, compromised and ideological. Yet they are also alarmed and disgusted by Trump, whom they view as uncouth, ignorant and a frighteningly dangerous loose cannon. How on earth should we vote, they ask me plaintively.
The way through this is surely to look beyond these two personalities at what each represents. Across Britain, Europe and the US, there is a popular uprising against the entire governing and intellectual class. People blame this elite for having left them stranded economically and damaged their children's life chances. They view it as a kind of globalised political, financial, and intellectual cartel acting in accordance with a set of fixed ideas that go against the interests of the people and the country. It is resented for riding roughshod over the public's desire to live in an independent nation with whose culture they identify and in which they feel they share.
Conservatively-minded Americans feel abandoned by a Republican party that seems to have junked conservative instincts and values. It seems indifferent to the precarious job market, low incomes and family breakdown. It joins the Democrats in smearing concerns about high levels of immigration as racist. It is hawkish for wars which seem to have more to do with reshaping the political landscape in unwilling lands than defending America.
Just as in Britain and Europe, these attitudes are rooted in an attack on the very idea of the western nation itself. A nation is formed from cultural attributes: history, language, religion, law, institutions. Western elites, however, have decided that their own national attributes are exclusive and imperialist, leading to nationalism, xenophobia and war.
Legitimacy is deemed to rest instead in transnational institutions, relationships and laws.
Multiculturalism thus became sacrosanct. Immigration couldn't be opposed. Putting the nation's interests first became seen as an act of global selfishness.
In America, the downside of Trump is obvious. He is a crude populist demagogue. He changes his position with bewildering frequency. Not only is he ignorant but he shows scant interest in educating himself.
Despite all this, many Americans believe his heart beats with theirs. They don't care that he doesn't know about stuff. They think he is principally a deal-maker and that he will make deals in America's interests.
Even his admiration for President Putin doesn't worry them. General Mike Flynn, former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and a Trump adviser, says: "He respects people who are selfish about their country." This makes people think that Trump similarly will champion his own country against its enemies.
They don't believe Hillary will see off America's enemies. They saw how she behaved in Benghazi. They think she and her husband constitute a vast money-making machine. They think she has managed to suborn the constitution through dodging prosecution over her dodgy emails. Disillusioned by Obama, they fear she will just be more of the same.
Trump v Hillary is, at root, the same as Brexit v Remain. Remainers swallowed their dislike of the EU because they didn't think Britain could overturn the status quo and survive.
Those who voted Brexit did so because the continued loss of national self-government was so intolerable it made the undoubted risks of leaving the EU worth taking.
The choice facing Americans is between, on the one hand, the known quantity of an experienced and savvy operator within an established cartel of political and financial interests and, on the other, an erratic governmental neophyte who stands for busting that cartel to put America first and make it again a power to be feared in an increasingly menacing world.
If Americans value predictability and the status quo over everything, they'll vote Hillary, just as Remainers did in Britain. If they decide that despite Trump's likely white-knuckle ride it's overwhelmingly important to break a political order they see as corrupt and dysfunctional, they'll vote for him in an echo of our Brexiteers.
Brexit was the moment when the western nation gathered its courage and started to fight back. That's why they're so gripped in America by what their cousins have just done across the pond.
If Americans want the predictable status quo, they'll vote for Hillary


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: COLORADO, USA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               208 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Trump fans are fired by the spirit of Brexit; Many who wanted to leave the EU were also keen to break a failed political establishment

BYLINE: Melanie Phillips

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 893 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Flying out of Aspen, Colorado, before breakfast time a few days ago, I blearily presented my boarding pass to the security officer. "Whaddya think about Brexit?" he asked eagerly. "D'ya think it's gonna happen?" Everywhere I have been in America in recent weeks, I have found colossal numbers of people gripped by what's been going on in Britain.
It's not just an academic interest. They all understand that the forces responsible for Brexit are broadly similar to those fuelling support for Donald Trump who, at this week's Republican convention, will be anointed as the party's presidential candidate.
Among Americans there is widespread sympathy with the perceived desire by the Brits to "get their country back". They feel just the same. Many, however, find themselves on the horns of an electoral dilemma. Not all: dyed-inthe-wool liberals would vote for Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate, even if she were Caligula's horse. For others, the idea of not voting Republican is equally unthinkable.
I'm meeting people, however, who will "never ever" vote for Hillary because they see her as irredeemably corrupt, compromised and ideological. Yet they are also alarmed and disgusted by Trump, whom they view as uncouth, ignorant and a frightening loose cannon. How on earth should we vote, they ask plaintively.
The way is to look beyond these two personalities at what they represent. Across Britain, Europe and the US, there is a popular uprising against the entire governing and intellectual class. People blame this elite for having left them stranded economically and having damaged their children's life chances. They view it as a kind of globalised political and financial cartel acting in accordance with a set of ideas that go against the interests of the people and the country. It is resented for riding roughshod over the public's desire to live in an independent nation with whose culture they identify and which they feel they share.
Conservatively-minded Americans feel abandoned by a Republican party that seems to have junked conservative instincts and values. It seems indifferent to the precarious job market, low incomes and family breakdown. It joins the Democrats in smearing concerns about high levels of immigration as racist. It is hawkish for wars which seem to have more to do with reshaping the political landscape in unwilling lands than defending America.
Just as in Britain and Europe, these attitudes are rooted in an attack on the very idea of the western nation itself. A nation is formed from cultural attributes: history, language, religion, law, institutions. Western elites, however, have decided that their own national attributes are exclusive and imperialist, leading to nationalism and xenophobia.
Legitimacy is deemed to rest instead in transnational institutions. Multiculturalism thus became sacrosanct. Immigration couldn't be opposed. Putting the nation's interests first became seen as an act of global selfishness.
In America, the downside of Trump is obvious. He is a crude populist demagogue. He changes his position with bewildering frequency.
Not only is he ignorant but he shows scant interest in educating himself.
Despite all this, many Americans believe his heart beats with theirs. They don't care that he doesn't know about stuff. They think he is principally a deal-maker and that he will make deals in America's interests.
Even his admiration for President Putin doesn't worry them. General Mike Flynn, former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and a Trump adviser, says: "He respects people who are selfish about their country." This makes people think that Trump will similarly champion his own country against its enemies.
They don't believe Hillary will see off America's enemies. They saw how she tried to evade the scandal of a murdered US diplomat in Benghazi.
They think she and her husband constitute a vast money-making machine. They think she has managed to suborn the constitution through dodging prosecution over her dodgy emails. Disillusioned by Obama, they fear she will just be more of the same.
Trump v Hillary is, at root, the same as Brexit v Remain. Remainers swallowed their dislike of the EU because they didn't think Britain could overturn the status quo and survive. Those who voted Brexit did so because the continued loss of national self-government was so intolerable it made the risks of leaving the EU worth taking.
The choice facing Americans is between, on the one hand, the known quantity of an experienced and savvy operator within an established cartel of political and financial interests and, on the other, an erratic governmental neophyte who stands for busting that cartel to put America first and make it again a power to be feared in an increasingly menacing world.
If Americans value predictability and the status quo over everything, they'll vote Hillary, just as Remainers did in Britain. If they decide that despite Trump's likely white-knuckle ride it's overwhelmingly important to break a political order they see as corrupt and dysfunctional, they'll vote for him in an echo of our Brexiteers.
Brexit was the moment when the western nation gathered its courage and started to fight back. That's why they're so gripped in America by what their cousins have just done across the pond.
If Americans want the predictable status quo, they'll vote for Hillary


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: COLORADO, USA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               209 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK business optimism at record low post-Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 447 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Dominic Harris BUSINESS optimism among finance chiefs has plunged to its lowest level on record in the wake of Britain's decision to quit the European Union.
A survey by consultancy giant Deloitte shows that 73pc of chief financial officers are less optimistic about the prospects for their company following the referendum result, up from 32pc in the first quarter.
BREXIT REFERENDUM The figure is the highest level registered since Deloitte's survey began in 2007 and higher than during the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008. As a result, business bosses will put the brakes on hiring and rein in capital spending in the expectation that revenues will plummet.
David Sproul, senior partner and chief executive of Deloitte, said: "The outcome of the EU referendum has triggered a sharp, negative response from the corporate sector.
"This survey was conducted immediately after the referendum, against a backdrop of historical political upheaval and financial uncertainty.
"The faster-than-expected appointment of a new Prime Minister removes one source of uncertainty, now the government must set out its vision for the UK's future relationship with the EU to provide further stability and reassurance."
The survey also revealed that 83pc of CFOs expect a slowdown in hiring over the next year, the highest number recorded and up significantly from 29pc in the first quarter. The proportion forecasting a cut in discretionary spending (82pc) is the highest since 2011.
To counter the negative effects of the referendum result, 91pc of CFOs are urging the UK government to send a "strong signal" about its aims in negotiations with the EU.
A total of 88pc also said that maintaining the solvency and liquidity of the banking system is "essential", while 25pc want the government to continue with a deficit reduction plan.
Around 95pc of CFOs say the level of uncertainty facing their business is above normal, high or very high, up from 83pc in the first quarter and returning to levels last seen during the euro crisis in 2012.
Ian Stewart, chief economist at Deloitte, said: "CFOs do not seem to be waiting for growth to slow before adjusting direction. There has been a marked shift to more defensive balance sheet strategies in the wake of the referendum, with a focus on reducing costs, building up cash flow and caution on all forms of spending.
"Corporate willingness to take risk has seen one its largest ever declines while the outlook for capital spending, hiring and discretionary spending is at levels last seen just before the so-called 'double-dip' slowdown of 2012."
A total of 132 CFOs of FTSE 350 and other large private companies, worth over £365bn, participated in the survey.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               210 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 4:34 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK house prices surged in the month before Brexit vote, figures show; May data masks regional variations and current property values could already be declining, expert says

BYLINE: Patrick Collinson

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 397 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: House prices surged by 1.1% in May, according to official , with the typical home jumping in value by £2,400 over the month. 
The Office for National Statistics figures were taken before the Brexit vote, and based on mortgage completions, so are regarded as a lagging indicator for the economy. 
Andrew Bridges, managing director of estate agents Stirling Ackroyd, said: "Since these figures are for May it's likely that house prices have already fallen to some extent in parts of the country. British property buyers are weathering a storm of uncertainty, and the hatches were battened down a little in the first week or two after the Brexit vote."
The May rise followed an increase of 0.8% in April and 0.9% in March. Prices rose fastest in Scotland, which saw a 2.8% jump in May alone. 
The national figures mask huge regional variations. In the north-west, west Midlands, Yorkshire and Humberside and Northern Ireland, prices fell during May, while in London they rose by 1.5% and in the south-east by 1.8%. 
The year-on-year increase was stable at 8.1%, with a low of 3.2% in north-east England and a high of 13.6% in London. 
The average UK house price was £211,000 in May - £16,000 higher than in May 2015, and £2,400 higher than last month. 
Housing charity Shelter said house prices and rents remained beyond the reach of most people on average wages, and called on new prime minister Theresa May to bring forward a new housebuilding programme. 
Campbell Robb, chief executive of Shelter, said: "It's difficult to predict what will happen to house prices over the next few months, but one thing we know for sure is that we have a severe shortage of affordable homes, and this hasn't changed since the Brexit vote. 
"Sky-high rents are leaving millions of people stuck in a rent trap with no hope of saving for a home of their own, and - as these figures show - even if they could scrape some money together, house prices are completely out of step with average wages in most of the country.
"The new prime minister and her government have a real chance to turn things around if they prioritise fixing the housing shortage and quickly get our country building homes that people on ordinary incomes can actually afford to buy or rent long-term. Not only will this help support our economy, it will give back hope to the millions of people crying out for a home they can call their own."


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); ENGLAND (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (75%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               211 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: We have to be masters of our own destiny y in the Brexit negotiations; ¦ analysis

BYLINE: EDDIE PUNCH

SECTION: FARMING;NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 982 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: VIDENTLY we have skin in the game when it comes to Brexit.
EMeat factories have been quick to react by cutting prices paid to farmers in response to the drop in the value of sterling against the euro.
For the time being, the exchange rate is the only tangible impact of Brexit.
We must not allow the sensationalism around the UK vote to cloud over basic facts. The impact so far is notable not for how severe is it but for how moderate it is.
In the immediate aftermath of Brexit there were headlines about global stock market collapse. However, by July 13, the Dow Jones and S&P 500 had not only recovered but reached all-time highs. As of last week, the FT250 index in London was just 3pc down on the pre-referendum high.
And while sterling hit a 31 year low against the dollar, for food exporters the really relevant exchange rate is sterling/ euro.
The fall in the pound against the euro is not extreme. In fact, a rate of (EURO)1.17 is similar or lower than the exchange rate that prevailed in much of 2013. Farmers will recall that beef price for R3 steers averaged (EURO)4.40 in June 2013.
This is not an argument to say that beef price could be (EURO)4.40 now but it does illustrate that other factors such as supply and demand of cattle are perhaps more relevant than the exchange rate.
However, when sterling gets really strong against the euro as happened in 2015, beef farmers do not get the full benefit.
The obsession with Brexit might be clouding over the fact that Ireland has perhaps too much dependency on UK exports.
Ireland's beef sector needs more than ever to spread risk by going hell for leather after other markets.
News that we have got clearance from the USA for manufacturing beef is a boost and it is vital that this translates into real volumes of beef as quickly as possible.
Live exports must be prioritised and every support must be given to ensure that the Turkish market for weanlings is capitalised on. Other live export possibilities such as Egypt must be pursued.
A recurring problem is that the live export business in Ireland is based on relatively small operations which will struggle to win large live export contracts and lack the scale to deal with the complexities of international shipping and the inherent financial and cash flow issues.
The Turkish requirement for 50,000 head to be supplied in tranches of 10,000 head demonstrates this challenge.
One slight benefit of Brexit is that the euro has also weakened against international currencies, albeit marginally, but further instability in the EU/ UK process may lead to further weakness in the euro as well as sterling.
It is when negotiations kick off to determine the future relationship between the UK and the EU that the long-term outcome for Irish agriculture will emerge. Here, it is all about the trading arrangements.
Ireland's problem is that the final trading deal must be negotiated between the UK and the EU. This means that the more the UK insists on its demands on curtailing movement of people, the less likely that we end up with tariff-free trade between the EU and the UK. That means tariffs on our exports to the UK.
Tariffs combined with a weaker sterling would be the worst of all worlds.
Regarding imports, Mercosur and TTIP talks must be reconsidered. The whole analysis of the EU position in these trade negotiations was predicated on an EU of 28 member states. An EU minus the UK's 60 million consumers is a different proposition. These talks need to be put on the back foot until we know where we are with the UK in terms of trade. Moreover, the EU Commission needs to re-set the impact analysis of combined Mercosur, TTIP and CETA trade deals on EU beef farmers to take account of the new reality.
Ireland must ensure that our interests are centre stage in any EU/UK negotiations. Nor can we allow the talks to be dictated by German or French interests.
Worse still would be the temptation to succumb to wishful thinking that Brexit will never happen. The rapid appointment of Theresa May suggests that the Tories are getting their act together and will present a unified front. They cannot afford to leave an open goal for UKIP so notions that the UK parliament can ignore the referendum or the government can tell the British electorate that they must vote again seem misguided to me.
Irish MEPs will have to work to ensure our interests stay centre stage in the European parliament but in reality the decisive interventions will have to be made at Council level by TARIFFS COMBINED WITH A WEAKER STERLING WOULD BE THE WORST OF ALL WORLDS the Taoiseach and relevant ministers.
One thing that we should consider is the way in which Ireland could help with mediation in negotiations. When talks hit an impasse, could there be a role for the likes of John Bruton or Bertie Ahern to act as a go between? Bruton, as a former EU ambassador to Washington, and Ahern, with his experience of dealing with the British in the Peace Process, could carry weight as honest brokers and at the same time keep Irish interests to the fore.
Clearly, the Taoiseach and government ministers are the principal voices for Ireland's interests, but they have a country to run and can only be involved at key intervals. These talks are going to be exhaustive and are likely to take more than the two years envisaged under Article 50.
In the meantime, farmers need to take a strong line in resisting meat factory scaremongering.
It would be foolish to suggest that Brexit is not an immense challenge with potentially unforeseen outcomes; it is alarmist and reckless to suggest that it is a disaster for Ireland and that our exports are going to take a fatal hit.
Nonetheless, we need to plan for a future where our exports are diversified significantly beyond our nearest neighbour, Brexit or not.
As Franklin D Roosevelt said: "We have nothing to fear but fear itself".
Eddie Punch is the general secretary with the ICSA


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               212 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:10 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: David Cameron accused of 'gross negligence' over Brexit contingency plans; Government exacerbated post-referendum uncertainty making Brexit task more difficult, says select committee report

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 589 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: David Cameron's government committed an act of gross negligence and deepened the uncertainty surrounding the impact of Brexit by instructing Whitehall not to make any contingency plans for a vote to leave the EU, parliament's foreign affairs select committee has said, 
The Cabinet Office minister, Oliver Letwin, told the committee that no plans for Brexit were ordered because it was possible they might leak and then be seen as unwarranted interference in the referendum campaign.
The committee's report says Cameron's "considered view not to instruct key departments including the FCO to plan for the possibility that the electorate would vote to leave the EU amounted to gross negligence.
"It has exacerbated post-referendum uncertainty both within the UK and amongst key international partners, and made the task now facing the new government substantially more difficult." 
 Related:  What's the best Brexit Theresa May could get for Britain?
The select committee also said that Brexit means that the Foreign Office will need extra resources and personnel, and a clear understanding with the other new Whitehall departments about responsibilities on the Brexit process.
It warns against a raid on Foreign Office staff by the new departments set up to deal with Brexit. Pointing out that the entire annual foreign office budget "is only twice the sum spent every year on aid to Ethiopia alone",  the report says the FCO needs a substantial increase in resources. 
"Any raid on Whitehall personnel by the new Department for Exiting the European Union," the foreign affairs select committee says, "is likely to include a particularly large proportion of officials from the FCO, including from its Europe directorate and from UKRep in Brussels."
It adds that the former foreign secretary Philip Hammond had warned last year the foreign officer is already "pretty close to the irreducible minimum of UK-based staff on the network".
The report says: "While it is essential that the Whitehall officials with relevant expertise are identified and put at the centre of managing the exit process, this cannot come at the expense of an already-overstretched FCO."
Ministers are understood to be bidding for extra staff in key embassies outside the EU, claiming the relaxation of the purse strings has been signalled by the Treasury decision to assert a budget surplus is no longer required by the end of the parliament.
The report says: "This is also about the UK's international reputation. We want to see the Foreign Office working effectively with the new Department for International Trade and the Department for Exiting the European Union. Our security, prosperity, values and democracy will depend on the strength of these key departments and their working relationships."
In a sign that relationships in Whitehall have not yet bedded down, Lord Bridges a junior minister at the Department for Exiting the EU, was forced to return to the Lords to explain why he had not told peers that the government was planning to abandon its planned presidency of the EU. The announcement was made by Downing Street in the evening on Tuesday, only hours after Lord Bridges assured peers no such decision was imminent.
Faced by warnings that peers would lose trust in him if he continued to be cavalier and failed to be open with parliament, Bridges refused to say when he had been informed of the Downing Street decision.
He said abandoning the presidency scheduled for the second half of 2017 would save the UK anywhere between (EURO)35m (£29m) and (EURO)170m.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BELGIUM (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               213 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 10:38 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bank of England agents report business as usual after Brexit; The majority of firms surveyed 'did not expect a near-term impact on their capital spending' from the referendum result

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 502 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Evidence that the UK economy has so far stood up well to the shock of Brexit has been provided by the Bank of England in a report showing no general slowing in activity since the referendum.
The monthly survey by the Bank's regional agents  - considered to be the "eyes and ears" of policy makers in Threadneedle Street - found that a majority of the firms questioned were not planning to mothball investment or change hiring plans.
The agents' report was released at the same time as the Office for National Statistics reported that the labour market remained solid in the period from March to May, the first three months of the referendum campaign, with the jobless rate falling to its lowest level in more than a decade.
The chancellor, Philip Hammond, said the figures "are proof that the fundamentals of the British economy are strong." He added: "As the economy adjusts to the effect of the referendum decision, it is doing so from a position of economic strength. 
The Bank of England said its agents had stepped up their investigations in the wake of the Brexit vote to find out how businesses were reacting. 
It found that for many companies the result had come as a shock, but with few having contingency plans, the tendency had been to adopt a "business as usual" approach.
"The outlook for investment was uncertain," the report said. "The majority of firms spoken with did not expect a near-term impact from the referendum result on their capital spending. But around one third expected some negative effects over the next twelve months, with reports of a 'risk off' approach to expenditures and some imminent plans for spending slipping." 
The agents found that there had been a dip in housing market activity after 23 June but that transactions had so far proved to be more resilient than some contacts had expected.
"There had been little evidence of any impact on consumer spending on services and non-durable goods, although there were some reports of consumers becoming more hesitant around purchases of higher-value goods."
The Bank's findings were backed up by the latest trading report from the retailer John Lewis. It said spending in its department stores and at its Waitrose supermarkets were 3.2% higher in the week ending July 16 than they had been in the same week of 2015.
The pound rose on the foreign exchanges after the Bank's agents report and the unemployment figures were released.
According to the ONS, there were 31.7 million people in work in the three months ending in May, 176,000 more than for the 3 months to February 2016 and 624,000 more than for a year earlier.
The government's preferred measure of unemployment, the internationally agreed measure which looks at those without a job but seeking and available to work, fell by 54,000 in the three months ending in May to its lowest level since early 2008, when the economy was in the early stages of recession.
The ONS said the unemployment rate had edged down from 5% to 4.9% and was last lower in the July to September period of 2005.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               214 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Border poll could be part of 'visionary' talks around Brexit

BYLINE: Marie O'Halloran

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 420 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: There is insufficient support for a Border poll now, but the 
talks on Britain's exit from the EU should be "long-sighted and visionary to cater for that kind of issue if it happened", the Taoiseach said.
Enda Kenny on Monday in Donegal raised the possibility of a Border poll, but he did not believe a referendum on a united Ireland would happen any time soon.
"Some time in the future they [Northern Ireland] should not have to go through the process of a long drawn-out application to join the Republic if that was the wish, but to be a member of the EU as well."
Mr Kenny was speaking in the Dáil during Taoiseach's Question. He said that "although there was no mandate from here to negotiate for Northern Ireland, it was very important that we have a responsibility as co-guarantor of the [Good Friday] agreement to understand the challenges that Northern Ireland businesses and entrepreneurs feel they face arising from Brexit". 
Clause
 He said when he referred to a Border poll while in Donegal he was making the point that when the Belfast Agreement was being drafted "people were long-sighted enough to put into the agreement a clause whereby a time might arrive - we are now 20 years on -- when a secretary of state could invoke the clause on the basis of sufficient support for a Border poll".  
He said that in years to come after Britain left the EU and Northern Ireland having voted to stay but remaining part of the UK, "there may be general negotiations and discussions".
Mr Kenny said the North might in the long-term "want to extract itself from the UK to join a country that continued as a member of the EU". 
Concerns
 Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin supported the Taoiseach's move to raise the concerns of Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon about Brexit, despite the criticism he received.  
However he expressed concern that in comments at the weekend the new British secretary of state responsible for Brexit, David Davis, "seemed somewhat confused as to the status of what he termed 'southern Ireland' when asked about this country".
Mr Martin said "he seemed to be unaware of our constitutional status to put it mildly".
He said Mr Davis was happy with "simply seeking a trade pact" with the EU once the UK leaves. "That would have significant implications for Ireland, and particularly Mr Davis's narrow view of the negotiation parameters with Britain."
Mr Kenny said: "I will see that Mr Davis is contacted at an early stage to have the full range of our constitutional position fully outlined for him."


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (57%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               215 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could sink the EU's corporate accountability drive

BYLINE: Aideen O'Dochartaigh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 779 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: TAX AVOIDANCE by multinational corporations costs the EU (EURO)50-70bn a year in lost revenue. In response, the EU has proposed legislation which will require organisations to disclose where they pay their taxes, allowing the public to call corporations to account for tax avoidance. Brexit puts this project in jeopardy.
In January of this year the then UK chancellor, George Osborne, struck a controversial deal with Google, requiring the software company to pay the UK government £130m in back taxes, a figure experts criticised as insufficient.
Earlier this month, Mr Osborne announced his intention to cut the UK's corporation tax rate to 15pc. In 2014, the head of one of the world's largest banks told the BBC that the UK is the world's "biggest, most developed tax haven". Brexit exposes the risk that the UK will pursue this status.
In November 2015 the OECD agreed reforms designed to combat Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS), the shifting of profits to low corporation tax countries and tax havens. Currently, multinationals are not required to disclose where they pay their taxes, and aggressive tax planning leads to inconsistencies between indicative and effective tax rates in individual countries.
For example, Apple used tax planning to cut its Irish tax bill by over $850m between 2004 and 2008, while Starbucks paid no UK tax on UK sales of £400m in 2012.
The EU is implementing the OECD reforms through the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, to be formally adopted later this month.
The Directive enforces Country by Country Reporting (CbCR); the largest companies resident or operating in the EU must disclose to tax authorities the tax paid versus revenue generated in each country of operation.
This information must be shared between the relevant tax authorities, both EU and non-EU, who can then claim the tax due. The legislation will apply to companies with annual turnover over (EURO)750m, approximately 6,000 organisations, and is due to come into force in January 2019.
The EU also plans to take this legislation one step further, proposing that Country by Country Reporting be made public.
This would allow us, as customers, employees and communities, to see how much tax companies actually pay in the countries whose infrastructure they deploy. Making this information public would provide a control of sorts on the negotiation of potential "sweetheart deals" between tax authorities and corporations.
However, while these measures suggest that we are poised to enter a new era of transparency and fairness in corporate taxation, there are some important caveats, which Brexit has thrown into full relief.
Based on the EU's current proposals for public Country by Country Reporting, non-EU Member States would be grouped together as the "rest of the world", meaning that companies would be required to report only aggregated data on non-EU countries.
After Brexit, the "rest of the world" will include the UK. This could make the UK an attractive potential tax haven. As UK advocacy group Tax Research suggests, "in effect, the proposal creates an incentive to use non-EU profit-shifting havens instead of EU ones". Furthermore, public CbCR is an EU initiative, not an OECD one.
The OECD does not plan to introduce it and, as the EU has acknowledged, most businesses are against this level of transparency. The UK has the After Brexit, the 'rest of the world' will include the UK. This could make it an attractive potential tax haven largest number of FT500 companies in Europe - 121 - almost twice the number headquartered in Germany, the EU's largest economy. Through Brexit, the EU will lose 24pc of its largest companies; the power of the EU to lobby for public CbCR will be weakened and that of business strengthened.
Ireland is also likely to find itself in a difficult position as the EU's Anti-Tax Avoidance Package progresses in the coming year. By 2017 the EU will create a tax haven "blacklist" for non-EU countries that "refuse to comply with tax good governance standards". EU members will then have to impose "common countermeasures" against these countries. Consider the consequences if the UK, our largest trading partner, was blacklisted.
The EU states that "effective taxation is heavily dependent on close coordination between Member States". Brexit is fundamentally counterintuitive to "close coordination" within Europe, both between countries and between companies and legislators.
To ensure fair and transparent payment of corporate taxes, we need legislation beyond the national level and we need a united EU. Brexit is a step in the wrong direction.
Aideen O'Dochartaigh is a postdoctoral research fellow at UCD Quinn School of Business


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               216 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit threw a 'spanner in the works' - IMF

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 643 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Donal O'Donovan THE British vote to leave the European Union "has thrown a spanner in the works" of IMF global growth projections, forcing the Fund to cut its European economic forecasts.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) yesterday cut its global growth forecasts for the next two years. The Washington-based body cited uncertainty over Britain's looming exit from the European Union as a key factor, although its had to cut its forecast four times already over the past 15 months.
The latest move included a nearly full percentage-point cut in the UK's 2017 growth forecast.
The IMF now expects global GDP to grow at 3.1pc in 2016 and at 3.4pc in 2017m, down 0.1 percentage point for each year from estimates issued in April.
The latest figures don't include a breakdown for Ireland. Here, the head of the Central Statistics Office (CSO) admitted yesterday that standard growth measures are no longer useful in assessing the size of the economy here.
"Standard GDP and GNP measures no longer provide a sufficient understanding of the Irish economy," Pádraig Dalton, director general of the CSO, told delegates at the McGill Summer School.
He was responding to the widespread disbelief at figures published last week that showed the economy here had grown by 26pc last year. An expert group is being convened to look at alternatives and will be tasked with preparing a report to be published later this year, he said.
However, Mr Dalton stood over the figures themselves.
The revisions published were based on hard data and attributable to the globalisation activities of a very small number of companies, he said. Growth here is expected to take a hit next year in real terms, as a result of the anticipated slowdown in the UK.
The IMF said the UK's Brexit vote had created a "sizeable increase in uncertainty" that would take its toll on investment and market and consumer confidence.
On the day before Britain's June 23 EU referendum, the IMF was "prepared to upgrade our 2016-17 global growth projections slightly", IMF chief economist Maury Obstfeld said in a statement. "But Brexit has thrown a spanner in the works."
The IMF said that the impact will hit hardest in Britain itself, where the institution cut its 2016 growth forecast to 1.7pc, down 0.2 percentage points from its April forecast. It cut the 2017 UK forecast more sharply, by 0.9 percentage points, to 1.3pc.
The IMF lifted its Eurozone forecast slightly for 2016, but cut its 2017 outlook by 0.2 percentage point to 1.4pc for 2017. It said last week that Brexit would have a "negligible" impact on the United States.
The IMF noted that its latest forecasts were made under relatively benign assumptions of a settlement between the EU and Britain that leads to limited political fallout, avoids a major increase in economic barriers and prompts no major further financial market disruptions.
Under a more "severe" divorce, the IMF sees a UK-EU trading relationship reverting to World Trade Organization rules, and London losing a large portion of its financial services sector to continental Europe.
Under that scenario, Britain would fall into recession and global growth would slow to 2.8pc in both 2016 and 2017, the IMF said.
Yesterday, the European Commission's economic arm gave its first assessment of the post-Brexit economic outlook.
For the euro area, including Ireland, the Commission expects growth could slow from an expected 1.7pc in 2016 to between 1.5pc and 1.6pc, and from 1.7pc in 2017 to between 1.3pc and 1.5pc.
Britain itself faces a sharper slowdown with growth reduced by 1pc to 2.75pc by 2017, it said.
"The referendum has created an extraordinarily uncertain situation. Due to the lack of information about the new equilibrium after the UK's exit, many elements have not yet entered the assessment but nevertheless constitute substantial risks to the outlook," the commission said.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); IRELAND (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               217 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain may get a Brexit [...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 15 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain may get a Brexit bonus as a tax rival to Europe - Comment: Aideen O'Dochartaigh, p27


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               218 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain needs a plan to mitigate the Brexit shock; There is no room for dogma in assessing demands of fiscal stimulus

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 609 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Uncertainty is the watchword at present for anyone seeking to assess the prospects of the UK economy. A month on from the referendum, it is clear that Britain's vote to leave the EU has dealt a severe blow to the confidence of businesses, households and investors. However, it is too soon to tell how hard this has hit activity, and the extent of the long-term damage will depend on the form Brexit takes.
This is apparent in the International Monetary Fund's update of its outlook for the world economy. It has cut its forecast for UK growth next year by a full percentage point but this assumes a swift deal that keeps the UK within the single market. In this benign scenario, the fallout of Brexit would be concentrated on the UK and its main EU trading partners. In a more adverse scenario, Brexit could halve output growth in advanced economies in 2017.
Given this degree of uncertainty - and the absence of acute stress in financial markets - it is reasonable for both the Bank of England and Philip Hammond, the incoming chancellor, to take time to consider their response .
By next month, the BoE will have at least some evidence of how the Brexit vote is affecting economic activity. This will help them judge how far the depreciation in sterling will push up inflation. This was already rising in June, according to the latest data, as a result of the recovery in oil prices. Yet the effects of a weaker exchange rate are likely to be offset by a fall in business investment, a freeze in hiring and a downturn in consumer spending. Most policymakers expect there will be a case for monetary easing, whether in the form of a rate cut, further asset purchases or a combination of measures.
However, with interest rates at historic lows, the BoE's options are limited. So it will be important for the government to recognise that fiscal policy may need to play a bigger part in any stimulus than it did in 2008, at the start of the last downturn.
This will be especially important if - as seems likely - higher inflation coincides with stagnation in wages. UK households are only just recovering from a long period of falling real incomes. Even if unemployment remains low, a fresh hit to living standards will make the politics of Brexit even more combustible. Theresa May, prime minister, has rightly abandoned her predecessors' commitment to run a budget surplus by 2020. But this does not necessarily mean any relaxation of austerity. If the chancellor left existing spending plans unchanged, there could be a breach of fiscal targets and an increase in austerity, since freezes on welfare spending would bite harder in an environment of higher inflation.
One of Mr Hammond's first tasks must be to rethink the UK's fiscal framework to ensure it remains credible. But he will also need to set aside any dogma when it comes to the public finances, and make a pragmatic assessment of the need for fiscal stimulus. By the time of the autumn statement, he should have enough information on the trajectory of the economy and the likely shape of Brexit negotiations to judge whether stimulus is warranted.
Treasury officials would do well to spend the summer identifying infrastructure investments that could be rapidly set in train. But given the complexity of large public projects, they should also identify ways to deliver a swifter boost to the economy, such as cuts in consumption tax, incentives for investment, or changes in land taxes that would spur development.
Stimulus policies cannot reverse the long-term effects of Brexit on the UK's economic potential but there is a great deal that can be done to lessen uncertainty and mitigate the shock.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               219 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 12:29 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain's new chancellor hasn't had the baptism of fire many predicted; Philip Hammond has had a dream start but the full impact of Brexit will only become apparent over the coming years

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 650 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Philip Hammond has had a dream start as chancellor of the exchequer. Unemployment is down. The Bank of England says there are no signs of a general slowing in activity. Consumers are still spending in the shops. The International Monetary Fund says the economy will slow sharply but will avoid a recession.
It is still early days, of course. The full effects of the Brexit vote on the economy will only become apparent over months and years rather than in the four weeks that have so far passed since 23 June. As the Bank's agents made clear in their monthly report, many companies were so stunned by the result they have yet to work out what to do next.
"Uncertainty had risen and many felt there was a lack of information on which to base major decisions and that information might only become available with a considerable lag as future trading relations became clearer," they said.
The IMF made a similar point in its updated World Economic Outlook. It noted that Brexit was still unfolding, which is obviously true.
That said, Hammond has not had the baptism of fire that many predicted. Forecasts from the remain camp - of which the new chancellor was a member - came thick and fast in the run-up to the referendum. All of them warned of severe and immediate consequences if the leave side won.
Yet, the economy has not come to a grinding halt, which is perhaps unsurprising given that many of those who voted for Brexit did not believe forecasts made by the Treasury, the OECD  and the IMF. Events since the referendum suggest the scepticism was well-founded. The Treasury has canned plans for an emergency budget and there has been considerable backtracking by the IMF on the doom it predicted for the UK (and the wider global economy) in the event of Brexit. That prompted Michael Pearce of Capital Economics to say that the Fund was bluffing all along.
To be sure, the Fund cut its 2017 growth forecast for the UK by 0.9 percentage points. But this would be a relatively modest revision given the magnitude of the referendum. It doesn't remotely compare to the cost of the great recession, when growth of 2.5% in 2007 was followed by contractions of 0.4% in 2008 and 4.5% in 2009.
It is worth repeating: these are still early days. There is a possibility that the economy will gradually lose momentum over the next 12-18 months as companies decide not to go ahead with expansion plans or move production overseas. 
The latest unemployment figures were strong, but some labour market experts think they are not quite as good as they look.
Labour market specialist, John Philpott, director of the Jobs Economist consultancy, said: "On the face of things it might be said that the UK jobs market defied concerns about pre-Brexit vote jitters, with employment up a very hefty 176,000 in the spring quarter and the jobless rate falling to 4.9%. Bonus payments even gave a welcome boost to average weekly pay packets.
"But one doesn't have to dig too deep for signs that employers did become more cautious in the run-up to the referendum. Self-employment accounts for two-thirds of the total quarterly rise in employment while vacancies for employee jobs flat-lined and growth in average weekly regular pay (ie excluding bonuses) dipped a little. 
"These stats thus paint a confusing picture of the state of the UK jobs market prior to the Brexit vote and it would be unwise to draw upon the strong headline figures as evidence that the shock of Brexit on jobs will prove to be mild." 
But only in its wildest dreams could the government have expected the initial post-Brexit-vote world to be so benign. There is plenty of uncertainty but no panic. Sterling has stabilised and share prices are rising. Theresa May and her ministers have the breathing space to work out how they are going to engineer Brexit. Clearly this is the beginning and not the end of the story. But it could have been a lot, lot worse. 


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               220 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Business How Brexit could ramp [...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 8 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Business How Brexit could ramp up fracking in UK


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               221 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: City brokers put brave face on Brexit; Analysis: Trading room

BYLINE: Philip Stafford

SECTION: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 815 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: If the UK's decision to leave the EU puts the City of London's trading position at risk, those most affected are putting a brave face on it nearly a month on from the vote.
At MarketAxess, the US-owned bond trading venue, a team of five people are working on the vote's implications and examining potential alternatives to London as its European base.
Rick McVey , chief executive, says he expects the UK will mirror the regulatory framework with the EU and work hard to preserve London as the financial centre of Europe.
A move to Europe "is not a big disruption for us and we're prepared to do that. It's more of a problem for the banks - it's a regulatory burden," Mr McVey says, adding "fragmentation is good for us. If trading gets dispersed, expect the market volumes to go up".
This train of thought is being played out at a host of market infrastructure providers that have used London as a European home as the financial industry has expanded in recent decades.
Bond, currency and equity trading venues, clearing banks and brokers are debating if they need to move some, or all, of their operations to Europe to retain access to the EU's single market.
Mr McVey's hope that UK-based financial services companies would be able to "passport" operations to all European countries - and thus avoid a timeconsuming move - is widely shared.
However, some, like Bats Europe, the region's largest stock exchange, are aware they may need to establish a regulatory and legal presence in the EU long before the UK's formal leaving date.
Many talk about "going where their customers want to be" but there is little consensus among executives what signal would precipitate a final decision.
"We've started planning for this at the end of last year. But no one wants to be the one to pull the trigger . . . It will be a qualitative approach," says one person familiar with the planning at a large US bank in London. But there are other concerns, he admits. "The ability of regulators outside London to manage something this size is untested."
However, also tempering the push to explore continental Europe is the realisation that, in a world where money moves freely across borders, few need to make significant changes.
Shortly after the vote John Phizackerley , chief executive of interdealer broker Tullett Prebon, sent a memo to staff that there were unlikely to be any immediate implications for "the organisation, the regulatory environment, the location of our global HQ or for where our employees are based".
Others expect to keep the majority of their London operations, pointing out that corporate holdings are often complicated. ICAP, which has headquarters in London, noted that BrokerTec, its fixed income platform, is based in the US while EBS, its currency trading venue, is based in Switzerland.
BNY Mellon, the US bank with more than $29tn assets in its care, says it has flexibility thanks to a multi-bank model. "We have material and broad-based entities. For example we have an EU-based bank in Brussels, with a branch structure across Europe," says Hani Kablawi, the head of investment services for the region.
But for all the long-term planning, others are keen not to miss out on potentially lucrative revenues available from London's vast capital markets.
Yesterday, BGC Partners, the interdealer broker, agreed to buy the UK's Sunrise Brokers to boost its exotic equity derivatives business.
Crucially, London's markets were showing signs of evolving even before the referendum, attracting new fixed income and currency trading from China and India. The City now has more than 50 per cent of the fast-growing renminbi forex trading activity outside China and Hong Kong. The US is second with a mere 12 per cent market share, according to messaging system Swift.
"The renminbi 20 years ago, none of us traded at all, 10 years ago was a micro currency, five years ago began to be relevant, and now is a significant currency. It's the fourth-largest currency traded on the EBS platform today, but I think it has the potential to go significantly further than that," ICAP chief executive Michael Spencer told investors.
In the past 12 months the London Stock Exchange has become a more favoured destination for global debt issuance, competing with Luxembourg for renminbi-denominated debt.
Last week, the first offshore Masala bond by an Indian corporation was listed on the LSE. There have also been the first Chinese and Indian exchange-traded fund issuers, India's first rupee-denominated bond and a renminbi currency bond issued by Hungary.
"What you've seen recently is part of the big history and strong reach in the global investor community," says Nikhil Rathi, chief executive of the LSE. "These markets started off just a few years ago. Now this year, we've had more than 50 renminbi issuances on our market. The regulatory regime carries huge weight. London is known for being global."


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               222 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Collapsed holiday company failed to insure against Brexit fallout

BYLINE: Andrew Ellson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 538 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The boss of failed online travel firm Low Cost Holidays gambled with the holidays of tens of thousands of customers by failing to insure against currency movements, The Times has learnt.
Cost-cutting by Paul Evans left the company exposed to the collapse in the value of sterling after the EU referendum, insiders have said.
Mr Evans also withdrew his company from the Abta and Atol travel association protection schemes, apparently in rows over the price of insuring customers' holidays. The company instead registered with a travel agency regulator in the Balearic islands.
On Friday Low Cost Holidays collapsed into administration with 140,000 people losing holidays worth more than £50 million. Each victim is set to receive compensation of only £7.50 from the Spanish regulator rather than the full refund they would have received if Low Cost Holidays had remained part of Abta and Atol. A senior figure in the company, who did not want to be named, said: "The fall in the value of the pound after the vote hit the business hard. The company did not hedge the risk and didn't have the cash on its balance sheet to survive."
Big tour operators in Britain generally choose to insure against swings in the value of the pound so that their business and customers are protected against fluctuations that may push up the cost of holidays.
The Times can also reveal that private equity investors were on the brink of saving the struggling holiday company with an injection of cash three weeks ago but the deal collapsed when Britain voted to leave the European Union.
This is likely to raise questions about the extent to which senior figures at Low Cost Holidays knew the end was near as they lured holidaymakers with special offers. The day before the company collapsed it was offering discounts of up to 60 per cent with adverts online that said: "Our holiday sale has been extended for a limited time only. Grab your lilo and go."
In one case, Low Cost Holidays took a £400 payment from a family hours before revealing it had gone bust. The company announced it was going into administration at 4.47pm but the website was still open for bookings at 4pm. The only hope now for victims of the collapse is if they booked their holiday on a credit card because card providers are obliged to offer customers refunds for services that do not materialise.
The Times has also learnt that one of the non-executive directors of Low Cost Holidays was the boss of a business-class airline that went bust in 2008. Lawrence Hunt was the man behind SilverJet, a company that left thousands out of pocket when it collapsed.
Mr Evans, who has run Low Cost Holidays since 2004, has a reputation as a ruthless cost-cutter. Membership of Atol costs travel companies £2.50 per www.booking.No other major travel agent has withdrawn from the safety net, which was introduced in the 1970s after the collapse of several holiday companies. In 2013 Mr Evans also withdrew his company from Abta, which offers extra protection to people who book hotels but not flights.
Mr Evans, who owns a £2 million house in Fulham, west London, and another in Spain, courted controversy last year when he sacked British workers and outsourced work to Poland. He declined to comment.
Graphic
Paul Evans has a reputation forcutting costs


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (78%); EUROPE (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               223 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Collapsed holiday company failed to insure against Brexit fallout

BYLINE: Andrew Ellson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 546 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The boss of the failed online travel firm Low Cost Holidays gambled with the holidays of tens of thousands of customers by failing to insure against currency movements, The Times has learnt.
Cost-cutting by Paul Evans left the company exposed to the collapse in the value of sterling after the EU referendum, insiders have said.
Mr Evans also withdrew his company from the Abta and Atol travel association protection schemes, apparently in rows over the price of insuring customers' holidays. The company instead registered with a travel agency regulator in the Balearic islands.
On Friday Low Cost Holidays collapsed into administration with 140,000 people losing holidays worth more than £50 million. Each victim is set to receive compensation of only £7.50 from the Spanish regulator rather than the full refund they would have received if Low Cost Holidays had remained part of Abta and Atol. A senior figure in the company, who did not want to be named, said: "The fall in the value of the pound after the vote hit the business hard. The company did not hedge the risk and didn't have the cash on its balance sheet to survive."
Big tour operators in Britain generally choose to insure against swings in the value of the pound so that their business and customers are protected against fluctuations that may push up the cost of holidays.
The Times can also reveal that private equity investors were on the brink of saving the struggling holiday company with an injection of cash three weeks ago but the deal collapsed when Britain voted to leave the European Union.
This is likely to raise questions about the extent to which senior figures at Low Cost Holidays knew the end was near as they lured holidaymakers with special offers. The day before the company collapsed it was offering discounts of up to 60 per cent with adverts online that said: "Our holiday sale has been extended for a limited time only. Grab your lilo and go."
In one case, Low Cost Holidays took a £400 payment from a family hours before revealing it had gone bust. The company announced it was going into administration at 4.47pm but the website was still open for bookings at 4pm. The only hope now for victims of the collapse is if they booked their holiday on a credit card because card providers are obliged to offer customers refunds for services that do not materialise.
The Times has also learnt that one of the non-executive directors of Low Cost Holidays was the boss of a business-class airline that went bust in 2008. Lawrence Hunt was the man behind SilverJet, a company that left thousands out of pocket when it collapsed.
Mr Evans, who has run Low Cost Holidays since 2004, has a reputation as a ruthless cost-cutter. Membership of Atol costs travel companies £2.50 per www.booking.No other major travel agent has withdrawn from the safety net, which was introduced in the 1970s after the collapse of several holiday companies. In 2013 Mr Evans also withdrew his company from Abta, which offers extra protection to people who book hotels but not flights.
Mr Evans, who owns a £2 million house in Fulham, west London, and another in Spain, courted controversy last year when he sacked British workers and outsourced work to Poland. He declined to comment.
Paul Evans has a reputation for cutting costs


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (78%); EUROPE (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               224 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Goldman quick to blame Brexit for fall in client activity; Banks: EU vote fallout

BYLINE: Ben McLannahan and Adam Samson

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 721 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Blame it on Brexit.
Right at the start of Goldman Sachs' second-quarter earnings call yesterday, Harvey Schwartz called out the main culprit. The recovery was going pretty well from a wretched first quarter, said the bank's chief financial officer. Then came the UK poll on its EU membership. In the run-up to the vote, client activity dropped while Goldman pulled in its horns.
But if the excuses keep coming, the returns do not. The period from April to June marked the fourth quarter in a row in which Goldman, the most powerful of the Wall Street powerhouses, has produced returns on equity in the single digits.
The second-quarter return of 8.7 per cent was an improvement on the 5.3 per cent of the first quarter, when markets saw drops in stocks, commodities and bonds. But Matt O'Connor, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, noted that the second quarter ROE would have been worse still, at more like 8 per cent, were it not for a boost from a lower tax rate. Glenn Schorr, an analyst at Evercore ISI, had a simple verdict on the first-half average ROE of 7.5 per cent: "Un-Goldmanlike."
Goldman has always shied away from putting out a target for ROE, which is a simple measure of how efficiently managers are using shareholders' funds to generate profits. The bank notes that all it needed this quarter was another $600m in revenues, up from $7.9bn, for it to hit double digits. Senior executives also argue that its shrunken ROEs are still better than many peers in the US and streets ahead of Europe, where the average among the big investment banks is about 5 per cent.
But before the crisis Goldman was consistently posting returns to shareholders that were much, much higher. In the decade running up to the Lehman collapse, in fact, Goldman's average annual ROE was 24 per cent.
Between 2009 and 2014, while markets were getting to grips with a slew of new rules on capital, liquidity and risk-taking, it eked out an annual average of 11 per cent.
Now, the effects of post-crisis measures, combined with ultra-low interest rates, have clearly begun to bite. The bank's so-called "value at risk" - a daily measure of maximum potential losses - dropped to $62m during the quarter, the lowest in at least five years and about one-fifth below the previous year.
Goldman has tried to compensate. It has built up its asset management unit, for example, and steered investors towards the sticky, annuity-like revenues it is capable of producing. But that unit had a rough time of it too, with a tumble in incentive fees leading to an 18 per cent fall in net revenues, to $1.35bn, from the previous year.
During the call with analysts, Mr Schwartz also lingered on the imminent launch of consumer loan products via GS Bank, the wholly owned unit recently beefed up by the acquisition of a big book of deposits from GE Capital. Developing a "durable business" from that unit will be one of the big three themes Goldman will be pushing to investors as executives do the rounds in coming weeks, according to insiders.
But the other two themes - stock buybacks and cost control - are a sign of Goldman's straitened circumstances. During the quarter Goldman bought back 11.1m shares, significantly more than the 7m estimate of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, reducing its diluted share count by about 2 per cent. But Mr Schwartz was reluctant to commit to further measures to push down the "E" in ROE, saying the bank wanted to retain flexibility to put capital to work supporting clients - if they wanted it.
On cost reduction, too - which would push up the "R" in ROE - the tone was muted. The bank cut about 5 per cent of its staff during the quarter, saying those measures would boost profits over the long run by about $700m a year. It also stressed that it had been restrained on pay, setting aside $3.33bn in compensation and benefits during the quarter.
Equally, the bank said that it didn't want to cut too far, making a familiar argument about taking advantage of the strategic upheavals at rivals.
But the result is that the market doesn't see a way forward to double-digit ROEs. Before yesterday's call analysts had expected Goldman to produce an ROE for 2016 of 7.5 per cent - exactly in line with last year - and just over 9 per cent in 2017. Investors may have to get used to this new reality. Or demand much tougher measures on pay.
See Lex


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               225 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Government to use fears over peace process in Brexit talks; Taoiseach concedes 'Ulster poll' unlikely any time soon

BYLINE: John Downing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 590 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THE Government will use fears of threats to the peace process to defend the North's interests in upcoming Brexit negotiations, the Taoiseach has signalled.
Enda Kenny told the Dáil he did not believe a referendum on Irish unity, which he mooted for the first time ever on Monday, was likely to happen in the near future.
He said Dublin had no mandate to negotiate for the North -but had obligations as co-guarantor with London of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
"It's very important that we have a responsibility as co-guarantor to understand the challenge Northern business people and entrepreneurs face arising from Brexit," the Taoiseach said.
A government source later said: "Peace is fragile up there. The economic situation is one of the root causes of instability. The Good Friday Agreement is an important factor in any Brexit negotiations."
The Taoiseach said he had spoken of the potential built into the 1998 agreement for a border poll, because he wanted to defend Northern Ireland's long-term interests in upcoming Brexit talks at EU level. If Brexit went ahead, when a majority in the North had voted against it, there was the prospect of a majority in the North opting to stay with the European Union and joining the Republic.
In that eventuality, he wanted to avoid a situation where Northern Ireland would be left in the back of a long EU membership application queue.
"The only point I'm making is that the discussions should be long-sighted enough and visionary enough to cater for that situation," the Taoiseach said.
Mr Kenny got strong support from Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin for his actions since the UK vote on June 23 to leave the EU. A spokesman for Mr Martin stressed the need for cross-party consensus in Ireland's post-Brexit response.
Mr Kenny was criticised by a leading Unionist politician who described the border poll remarks as "foolish" and "mischievous".
Crisis DUP MP Ian Paisley Jnr said the public in Northern Ireland from both nationalist and unionist communities had "no interest whatsoever" in a united Ireland.
Speaking on the RTÉ radio's 'News at One', Mr Paisley said calls for a referendum were motivated solely by causing "diversion". He singled out Mr Kenny and Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams, saying both lead-erships are in crisis.
"I think we can dismiss it gently. We can recognise the fact there isn't going to be a border poll," Mr Paisley said.
Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan brushed aside suggestions that the Taoiseach's comments stoked up tensions in relations with Belfast and London. "A border poll now would be divisive and unhelpful and I see no evidence that it would change the status of Northern Ireland," Mr Flanagan said.
"But as co-guarantors of the Good Friday Agreement we have an obligation to take account of Northern Ireland citizens' concerns in Brexit negotiations. We are obliged to remind our EU colleagues of this."
Mr Martin said the evidence from opinion polls was that support for a united Ireland was declining. But he said there was scope for an "all-island forum", uniting politicians, citizens and business interests, to discuss the vast implications of Brexit.
When Mr Kenny suggested such a forum a fortnight ago, he was publicly rebuffed by Northern Ireland First Minister, Arlene Foster. But he told the Dáil he was considering how to advance things and would attend a British-Irish Council meeting in Cardiff on Friday.
Peace is fragile in  ;  ;  the North. The  ;  ;  economic  ;  ;  situation is one  ;  ;  of the root causes  ;  ;  of instability  ;
Graphic
DEP leader Ian Paisley Jr, left, said Enda Kenny's calls for a united Ireland referendum were intended solely as a diversion


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               226 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hiring Brexit experts 'will cost billions'

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes ;Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 635 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The new Brexit unit is hiring top lawyers at up to £5,000 a day as ministers begin spending the half a billion pounds it is thought will be needed each year to get Britain out of the European Union.
Whitehall officials believe that at least 5,000 extra civil servants will have to be recruited to deal with Brexit, but extra lawyers and management consultants paid on a daily basis will push the costs up further. The bill could reach £5 billion over a decade.
Two senior partners from Linklaters have been seconded to the Department for Exiting the European Union along with management consultants from McKinsey. A legal expert who has worked with government said that the Linklaters lawyers would be on at least £5,000 a day, with management consultants charging closer to £1,000.
Accountants such as PricewaterhouseCoopers, KPMG and Ernst & Young have been approached to fill the skill gaps.
Whitehall sources said that permanent skilled trade negotiators, economists and regulators would have to be recruited in the next few months on up to £250,000 a year to help to unravel trade agreements, draw up new ones and extricate Britain from complicated Brussels legislation. Other less experienced staff would be needed to implement and monitor the new regulations. A working assumption drawn up with management consultants' help said that between 5,000 and 10,000 extra officials would be needed across the country. Staff would be required at border points, to take charge of fishing quotas and to oversee farming subsidies as Brussels rules expire.
"That is the likely number on a very average scenario," said one senior official. "It will cost hundreds of millions of pounds a year," he added. He calculated the cost at £500 million based on an average salary of £50,000 with as much again in pension costs, national insurance, office space and IT. Staff will be required for the two new ministries dealing with Brexit and international trade and in "hot" departments such as environment, the Foreign Office, the Home Office, and the newly merged Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.
Dominic Cook, associate fellow of the Saïd Business School, Oxford, which trains civil service leaders, agreed that up to 10,000 staff could be needed, including several hundred trade negotiators. "All the top accountancy firms have offered their support," said Mr Cook, formerly with Bird & Bird, the international lawyers.
"This is the biggest transformational project the UK has ever undertaken. You would need a multidisciplinary set of skills from pure commercial, financial and legal experts to economists and regulatory experts," he added. "They are going to be expensive - the better ones will be £200,000 to £250,000. It's going to cost billions."
The Cabinet Office declined to comment beyond saying that the civil service constantly reviewed its capabilities. However, Whitehall experts said that staff could be redeployed from other departments instead of new staff being hired. "We need to decide what should stop," said one.
"It is not really about overall numbers, but the specialist expertise we will need," said Julian McCrae, deputy director of the Institute for Government. Brexiteers also believe that the government will save hundreds of millions a year when Britain leaves the EU.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, headed by Andrea Leadsom, the former Tory leadership candidate, is braced for Brexit, which will require replacing EU rules, quotas and subsidies with UK versions.
Farmers have blocked EU inspectors from their land, telling them they are no longer authorised to visit, the Whitehall source said. He also claimed that some fishermen had burnt EU logbooks and were no longer sticking to fishing quotas in the mistaken belief that they did not matter any more.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               227 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: IMF and European Commission cut UK growth outlook due to Brexit; Forecasts suggest UK heading for a year of slow growth, with risk of recession

BYLINE: Cliff Taylor

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 478 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Growth in the UK will fall sharply next year due to the impact of Brexit, according to estimates published yesterday by the EU Commission and the IMF. 
The commission sees a risk of recession in the UK if Brexit has a serious impact on consumer and business confidence, and both organisations believe that at best the UK will record growth of 1 per cent next year.
Growth in the UK next year will be one percentage point lower than had previously been forecast because of Brexit, according to the forecast from the IMF.
So far this year, growth in the UK has been above expectations but the IMF, in an update to its world economic outlook, says the increase in uncertainty after the referendum will weaken domestic demand and reduce expected growth to 1.3 per cent next year, down from a previous forecast of 2.2 per cent.
First estimate 
The European Commission has not updated its formal forecasts but, in a first estimate of what Brexit could mean, it has cut its forecast for UK growth next year. It had previously forecast GDP growth of 1.9 per cent in the UK next year, but its new estimate says it could be between -0.3 per cent and 1.1 per cent, after growth of about 1.5 per cent this year.  
Lower growth in the UK - and in other export markets - is likely to affect the outlook for Ireland, though the latest update to the IMF's world economic outlook only covers the major economies, and the commission document looks at the UK and the EU area. 
Both organisations see a limited impact on international growth this year, but more next year, with a potentially greater impact if financial tensions grow or business and consumer confidence takes a heavy hit.
The IMF has cut its estimates of world growth by 0.1 of a percentage point in both this year and next to 3.1 per cent and 3.4 per cent respectively. 
However, growth in advanced economies will remain sluggish at 1.8 per cent in both 2016 and 2017.
The commission had forecast euro area growth of 1.7 per cent both this year and next. It now estimates growth of 1.5-1.6 per cent this year and 1.3 -1.5 per cent next year.
Uncertainties 
Both organisations underline the increased risk and uncertainties. The IMF says Brexit is still "very much unfolding" and the extent of political and economic uncertainty has risen. This means "the likelihood of outcomes more negative than the one in the baseline has increased".  
The European Commission said that the immediate impact would be an "uncertainty shock". The vote has create new risks and an "extraordinarily uncertain situation". 
The impact of Brexit on the wider euro zone economy was highlighted, with new figures showing a closely watched gauge of German economic confidence slumped this month. The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment, a measure compiled by the ZEW think-tank, fell by 26 points to minus 6.8 points in July   the lowest reading since late 2012.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               228 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 12:10 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: IMF cuts UK growth forecasts following Brexit vote; Predictions revised down from April as IMF says EU referendum result has 'thrown a spanner in the works' of global recovery

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 935 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The International Monetary Fund has slashed its forecast for UK growth next year after warning that the decision to leave the EU had damaged the British economy's short-term prospects and "thrown a spanner in the works" of the global recovery.
The IMF, which voiced strong misgivings about a vote for Brexit before the EU referendum, said it expected the UK economy to grow by 1.3% in 2017, 0.9 percentage points lower than an estimate made in its World Economic Outlook (WEO), in April.
While the fund is ruling out a full-blown recession, the analysis by one of the leading global economic bodies underlines the financial challenges facing Theresa May's government during a period when slower growth will lead to lower tax receipts and a bigger budget deficit. 
 Related:  IMF cuts UK and global growth forecasts following Brexit vote - business live
On Wednesday in Berlin, the prime minister will hold talks with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. Both are keen to minimise the economic fallout of Brexit. Germany, with its heavy reliance on exports, is seen by the IMF as the most vulnerable eurozone country following Britain's vote.
May is expected to warn that she needs time to consult with the governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, as well as industry sectors, before starting formal negotiations with Brussels. Tomorrow she goes to France for a meeting with the president, François Hollande, where she will deliver a similar message about the need to resist triggering article 50 until Britain is fully prepared for talks.
May and her ministers are keen to talk up the prospects for the economy, with the upbeat response from the Treasury to the IMF report contrasting with the pessimistic tone that had been adopted under George Osborne in the weeks leading up to the EU referendum.
A Treasury spokesman said overtures from Australia about a trade deal and the willingness of Softbank to pay £24bn for the technology firm ARM showed the UK could make a success of Brexit. "The decision to leave the EU marks a new phase for the British economy, but our message is this: our country remains open for business. We are the same outward-looking, globally minded, big-thinking country we have always been."
The IMF urged policymakers in the UK and rest of the EU to end the uncertainty. "Of primary importance is a smooth and predictable transition to a new set of post-exit trading and financial relationships that as much as possible preserves gains from trade between the UK and the EU." 
The IMF said it had cut its forecasts for the global economy due to the likely knock-on effect of the vote on other countries, particularly in Europe.
Maury Obstfeld, the IMF's economic counsellor, said: "The first half of 2016 revealed some promising signs - stronger than expected growth in the euro area and Japan, as well as a partial recovery in commodity prices that helped several emerging and developing economies.
"As of 22 June [the day before the referendum], we were therefore prepared to upgrade our 2016-17 global growth projections slightly. But Brexit has thrown a spanner in the works." 
The IMF predicted global growth of 3.1% in 2016 and 3.4% in 2017, both of which were 0.1 points lower than forecast in April. Britain is still expected to be the second fastest growing economy in the G7 this year - behind the US, despite having its growth forecast for 2016 trimmed by 0.2 percentage points to 1.7%. 
The IMF believes that next year the UK will have similar growth rates to Germany - the eurozone economy most affected by the Brexit-induced slowdown - and France. Germany's growth is now estimated at 1.2% in 2017, a fall of 0.4 points. 
It said: "The vote in the UK in favour of leaving the EU adds significant uncertainty to an already fragile global recovery. The vote has caused significant political change in the UK, generated uncertainty about the nature of its future economic relations with the EU, and could heighten political risks in the union itself. Continuing uncertainty is likely to weigh on consumption and especially investment." 
The WEO update said there was a risk that the impact of the UK's decision to leave could prove worse than expected. "With Brexit still very much unfolding, the extent of economic and political uncertainty has risen, and the likelihood of outcomes more negative than the one in the baseline has increased." 
The IMF outlined two alternative scenarios to its forecast, one moderately worse, one significantly. However, Obstfeld said the resilience of financial markets since 23 June meant that the fund was putting "less weight" on gloomy forecasts. 
 Related:  There could still be a second referendum in Britain - if EU leaders listen | Vernon Bogdanor
A forecast from the European commission, however, was less sanguine. In its first post-Brexit assessment, the commission said the UK would, at best, grow by 1.1% in 2017, but there was a risk that the economy could contract by 0.3%. 
The shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, said of the announcement: "Today's report from the IMF is another blow for the government and further highlights that they had no plan whatsoever for after a Brexit vote." 
Matt Whittaker, chief economist at the Resolution Foundation, said that if the IMF forecast were right, the UK economy would be £21bn smaller than thought: "A £21bn [cut] in the ... economy alone would reduce the tax take by £150m a week." 
The Adam Smith Institute said the "rebooting" of the economy after Brexit should include the scrapping of corporation tax, abolition of subsidies for farmers, and protection of Britain's fishing waters. 


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); WALES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (75%); BELGIUM (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               229 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: IMF warns of Brexit 'spanner in the works' and slashes forecasts;   UK 2017 growth outlook reined in   Borrowing set to rise   Global projections hit

BYLINE: Chris Giles, Economics Editor

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 458 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The International Monetary Fund has slashed its forecasts for the UK economy next year after Britain's vote to leave the EU and warned that the decision has thrown a "spanner in the works" for -global growth.
Even if the UK reaches a quick deal without new trade barriers with the 27 EU countries, the IMF expects Britain's economy to grow by only 1.3 per cent, instead of 2.2 per cent, in 2017, its biggest downgrade for any advanced economy.
The fund, which repeatedly voiced concerns about a Brexit before the June 23 referendum, also cut 0.2 percentage points from its 2016 UK growth forecasts in its latest update.
The Brexit decision poses broader risks to a world economy struggling with slow post-financial crisis growth and a fragile European banking system , the fund warned. It has trimmed 0.1 percentage points from its global forecasts for both 2016 and 2017.
"As of June 22, we were . . . prepared to upgrade our 2016-17 global growth projections slightly. But Brexit has thrown a spanner in the works," said Maurice Obstfeld, IMF chief economist.
"The direct effects specifically due to Brexit are greatest in Europe, especially the United Kingdom."
Theresa May's office said the prime minister acknowledged Britain would face economic "uncertainty in the short term" but she did not intend to let it cloud "optimism in the long term".
The IMF's latest forecasts assume that the UK and the EU will reach a trading relationship similar to that of Norway, meaning Britain would stay inside the European single market.
The IMF said before the Brexit vote that such a scenario would mean households and companies would soon be "relatively confident about the new long run and, therefore, uncertainty dissipates relatively quickly".
But the consequences from even this modest impact as a result of the vote are serious.
The IMF still estimates Britain's -public borrowing will rise by 0.7 per cent of national income in 2017. That implies that, rather than saving £350m a week, as Leave campaigners had promised, Brexit would cost UK taxpayers £270m a week. In the longer term, the public finance implications would be negative, the IMF thinks.
The Treasury made no comment about the trading relationship that the UK will seek with the EU but said: "The decision to leave the European Union marks a new phase for the British economy but . . . we are the same outward-looking, globally minded, big-thinking country we have always been."
Other parts of the global economy are little affected by the UK's vote to leave so long as the impact remains limited, the IMF said. However, Brexit would remain a risk for the whole world economy, especially if the relationship between Britain and the EU soured.
Spectre of stagflation page 2 Editorial comment page 12


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORWAY (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               230 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Investors give short shrift to post-Brexit prospects

BYLINE: The day's

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 562 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Stock markets have been surprisingly resilient since the immediate post-Brexit sell-off, yet interest in shorting UK equities is at its highest since late 2009, according to a closely followed global fund manager survey.
Investors have told Bank of America Merrill Lynch that over the next 12 months the market they are most likely to bet against is the UK. London-listed stocks also remain the least favoured market globally, according to the survey by the investment bank.
A net 27 per cent of fund managers are "underweight" in UK equities compared with 23 per cent last month, before the referendum result. Investors have also been flocking out of equities on the Continent, with on for @ fund managers going "underweight" for the first time in three years after the largest monthly drop in allocations to European stocks. Underlining the uncertainty, a third of investors expect another country to break away from the EU in the next three years. Investors buying protection against a sharp decline in stock markets also reached new highs for the survey.
The bearish sentiment was borne out on European indices yesterday. Paris and Frankfurt closed in the red and the FTSE 100 was flat, gaining less than two points to 6,697.37. The FTSE 250 rose 38.60 points, or 0.23 per cent, to 16,906.26.
The International Monetary Fund cut its UK and global growth forecasts for next year yesterday, while German economic sentiment hit its lowest point since 2012, according to a survey by ZEW, the think tank. Both weakened investor us twitter updates timesbusiness confidence. The FTSE100 was held back by a drop in its dominant mining sector shares after a big rebound this year. Extending falls from the previous session, BHP Billiton fell 28¼p to 948½p and Rio Tinto declined 85½p to £23.77 as the industry entered its earnings season.
Canaccord Genuity analysts said that Rio's second-quarter production report was mixed, with "disappointing performance in key commodities iron ore and copper and other issues in diamonds, hard coking coal, titanium dioxide slag and uranium".
Investec analysts said that they remained cautious on the near-term prospects for base metals, with the exception of zinc. "We are also sceptical regarding the sustainability of the recent rallies in bulk commodities, especially in iron ore, but see some stability returning to the coking coal market," they said.
Amid the global uncertainty, Investec favoured gold and upgraded Randgold Resources to "buy". Shares in the African precious metals miner duly gained 140p to £89.40.
Coca-Cola HBC was the top riser on the FTSE 100, though, fizzing 47p higher to £15.68, boosted by an upgrade from JP Morgan Cazenove. The broker told clients that bottlers were proving more "resilient than beer or spirits to macroeconomic volatility and the bottlers provide ... predictable cashflows through volume growth in a low-inflation world".
Leisure stocks were also outperforming the market, recouping their losses after falling on Monday in the aftermath of the troubles in Turkey and Nice. The tour operators TUI and Thomas Cook gained 2½p to 945p and ¾p to 64p on the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250, respectively.
Wizz Air was flying lower, though, dipping 33p to £15.43, with the budget airline focused on eastern Europe scheduled to publish a trading update this morning.
94885½p follow us on twitter for updates @timesbusiness


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GERMANY (71%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               231 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 11:24 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ireland's newspaper commentators wonder at the outcome of Brexit; Is the Irish prime minister, Enda Kenny, merely playing politics by raising the possibility of a poll on the future of the Northern Ireland border?

BYLINE: Roy Greenslade

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 657 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Irish Times is unimpressed with a surprise decision by Ireland's prime minister, Enda Kenny, to reiterate his call for a poll on the future status of Northern Ireland.
In a stinging editorial, the paper referred on Wednesday to Kenny's suggestion as a "pointless refloating" of the idea, seeing it as little more than "a cynical chance" by the leader of the Fine Gael party "to steal Sinn Féin's nationalist colours."
It was a reference to the fact that, immediately after the EU referendum (which returned a remain majority in Northern Ireland), Sinn Féin's Martin McGuinness declared that the result intensified the case for a poll.
"Kenny must know it will not go anywhere," said the Irish Times. He "has shot himself in the foot with, no doubt, a decommissioned Sinn Féin blunderbuss."
So, as far as the paper is concerned, Kenny was merely playing politics. He raised the matter in the knowledge that Brexit has become a major concern and talking point among the Irish people.
Having been in Donegal continuously since 23 June, I have lost count of the number of times I've been asked about the issue. Main question: will it mean the restoration of a border between the Republic and the north?
No-one can imagine it, although plenty in this border county can remember both the long-gone customs posts and the British army checkpoints. The peace process has since eradicated all sense of a border. 
The only way you can tell you have crossed from one jurisdiction to the other is the change in road signs from mph to kph, or vice versa. 
Kenny's notion of there being an opportunity to reunite Ireland was based on a provision in the 1998 Belfast Agreement that allows the secretary of state (now James Brokenshire) to trigger a poll within Northern Ireland. 
To do so, the minister would need evidence that "a majority of those voting would express a wish that Northern Ireland should cease to be part of the UK and form part of a united Ireland."
There is, however, precious little such evidence at present. Virtually all unionists, who still form a majority, remain committed to the UK link. And even though I am a Sinn Féin supporter and favour unification, I have to concede that opinion polls show plenty of nationalists would vote against.
The major unionist party, the DUP, is unwilling to enter into formal talks with the Republic about post-Brexit arrangements across the island. Its leader, and first minister, Arlene Foster (who advocated an EU leave vote), has made that abundantly clear.
But that's not to say that the issue will slip quietly by. As Ian McBride argued in Wednesday's Guardian, Brexit undermines the spirit of the Belfast Agreement: "England's unilateral declaration of independence means that the border will dominate politics again." He wrote:
 "First, the agreement clearly envisaged that Northern Ireland's future constitutional arrangements would be worked out in the context of continuing partnership between the north and the south.  To remove Northern Ireland from Europe without its consent is not only morally wrong and politically risky; it is also a rejection of the fundamental bilateralism of the peace process. Second, the all-Ireland dimension of the Belfast agreement was fundamental to securing the support of nationalists. The republic felt able to revise its constitution, recognising fully the legitimacy of partition for the first time." 
Those are the facts, but it doesn't mean they will engender action. There is plenty of room for political fudge in the short term while, in the long-term, the determining factor will surely be the economic, as distinct from political, effect of Brexit.
In truth, as newspaper commentators both north and south of the border have reflected in a variety of speculative pieces, no-one can really determine Brexit's outcome. But, day by day, in pubs, shops and in the street, I note that it makes for a much more interesting conversation opener than the weather...


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (56%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               232 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: L&G bigs up ICI bulk annuity deal to calm post-Brexit anxieties

BYLINE: Kate Burgess

SECTION: LOMBARD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 320 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Legal & General issued its first insurance policy to a little-known lawyer called Thomas Smith in 1836. Nearly 200 years later, it has got the hang of how to flam up contracts with bigger-named but still low-risk customers.
Yesterday L&G agreed a deal with ICI , the chemicals business now owned by AkzoNobel of the Netherlands, to cover £750m of its pension promises to staff, however long they live.
Can bulk annuities ever get more exciting? This is one of the biggest so-called buy-in annuity contracts signed in the UK. No matter the fall in bond yields post Brexit, which has caused most deficits in defined benefit pension schemes to soar and insurance costs to rise. L&G wants us to know that the annuity market is thriving, and its sales of annuities over the past six months are already twice the size of sales in 2015. The ICI deal, it hopes, will encourage others to follow.
Unlikely. ICI's retirement scheme is very unusual. The shortfall for UK schemes as a whole is nearly £1tn. The gap between ICI's assets and liabilities is a mere £1bn. Most of its assets are gilts and bonds. Nearly all its £11bn liabilities are hedged and bolted down, against inflation, interest rates, longevity, floods, storms, acts of God and the rest. ICI has already secured £7bn of buy-in contracts and was looking to do more when the UK voted to leave the EU.
So when bond prices rose, ICI moved swiftly to clinch the deal with L&G and shave £10m off the cost. It suited L&G, whose shares have fallen a fifth since Brexit over concerns about the economy and that the annuity market will stumble. Trustees of other pension schemes won't be so lucky - or fleet of foot. Most of the UK's 6,000 schemes with their £2tn of liabilities and widening deficits cannot afford the insurance even if L&G and rivals wanted to take them on.
For all the flam, the bulk annuity market will remain ant-sized for a long while yet.
kate.burgess@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NETHERLANDS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); NL Netherlands; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               233 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: L&G tackles Brexit doubts with ICI pension buy-in; Insurance

BYLINE: Oliver Ralph, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 372 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Legal & General has moved to quell growing doubts about its post-Brexit business model by signing a £750m deal with the ICI pension fund.
Shares in the insurance group have performed poorly since the UK's EU referendum, falling 19 per cent.
One of the fears has been that Brexit will herald a long period of low interest rates, which would be bad for the bulk annuity market in which L&G is one of the leaders.
But yesterday's deal suggests the market is thriving. L&G will take on £750m of liabilities from the ICI scheme in a so-called pension buy-in, where some, but not all, of a scheme's pension promises are passed on to an insurer. ICI was sold to Dutch group Akzo Nobel in 2008.
Cheryl Agius, head of strategic pension risk transfer at L&G Retirement said: "The strength and depth of our relationship with ICI Pension Fund enabled us to move fast when the market opportunity presented itself.
"The result is a further step forward in the de-risking programme which we are helping the ICI Pension Fund Trustees to deliver for their scheme members."
Shares in L&G opened down slightly yesterday, falling 0.4 per cent to 190.5p. They recovered slightly to close at 191.40p, up 0.1 per cent on the day.
Traditionally, low interest rates have been bad news for the pension buyout market. Insurers will only take on liabilities from schemes that are fully funded, and low rates increase the size of pension deficits. According to the Pension Protection Fund, the aggregate size of UK deficits rose from £295bn at the end of May to £384bn at the end of June.
The deal suggests that, even with interest rates low, there is appetite from corporate UK for bulk annuity deals. L&G says the ICI deal was signed after the referendum.
Earlier this year, L&G took on a £2.9bn book of annuity business from Dutch rival Aegon. In total, it has completed £4.5bn of annuity deals so far this year, well ahead of the £2.4bn completed in the whole of 2015.
"Political and market uncertainty around the EU referendum did not get in the way of business, as companies or individuals will always need to manage their employees or own retirement," said Kerrigan Procter, managing director of L&G Retirement, in a statement issued just after the vote.
See Lombard


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               234 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May meets Merkel: historic encounter dominated by Brexit; PMs trip marks first time UK and Germany have simultaneously had female leaders and she will face questions about how Britain intends to leave the EU

BYLINE: Kate Connolly Berlin

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 984 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: When she visits Berlin this evening on her first foreign trip since becoming UK prime minister, the most pressing question Theresa May is likely to face from Angela Merkel will be how and when she intends to extract Britain from the European Union. 
"It's up to Britain to make clear how it wants to structure its relationship with the EU in future," Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert stressed, ahead of the visit, making it clear the onus was on Britain, not the EU, to make it work.
The refugee crisis, political developments in Turkey as well as the fight against terrorism will be high on the two leaders' agenda, after May has received military honours in front of the chancellery, and the two women sit down together for a working supper. But the unspoken issue will be Brexit, even though discussions on that will be kept brief under the rules set by the EU that only once article 50 has been triggered can negotiations over the exit conditions begin.
Merkel's priority will be to press home the message delivered by her foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, that an exit request be delivered as soon as possible, as well as repeating her own insistence that it is up to Britain to suggest how it should be carried out. 
May and Merkel's encounter is a historic one, being the first time Britain and Germany have simultaneously had female leaders. 
Much has been made already of the apparent similarities between the diligent, ambitious leaders. Both are the daughters of pastors and are childless. Both are viewed as being skilled at getting what they want. "These skills and biographical similarities will help form a bond between May and Merkel," said Stefanie Bolzen of Die Welt.
 Related:  European countries with female prime ministers
When Merkel made her first visit to the UK as newly elected German chancellor in 2005, she was quickly referred to as Germany's Margaret Thatcher. No one makes such a comparison any more. Instead May is referred to as Britain's Merkel and it has even been suggested has modelled herself on her German counterpart, not least in her maiden speech in which she expressed her wish to "make Britain a country that works for everyone", which had strong echoes of Merkel's social market tendencies.
But it remains to be seen whether their relationship will warm or cool over what are likely to be highly complicated and drawn-out Brexit negotiations that will dominate their cooperation.
In a nod to the potential convivial relationship the two women might have, as well as their unlikely rises through the ranks of male-dominated conservative parties, a Berliner Zeitung cartoon depicted them drinking cups of tea, with Merkel telling May "Simply let the men get on with their thing..." and May, fresh from taking over from David Cameron, finishing her sentence with "... and then you end up getting their jobs!".
But Merkel is taking a typically cautious approach. Summing up her first telephone conversation with May last week, made during a trip to Kyrgyzstan, she said: "I'm looking forward to working with Theresa May." Tellingly, she ignored a question asking for her response to May's appointment of Boris Johnson as foreign secretary, a promotion widely viewed with incredulity in Germany. Instead she delivered the tepid response: "I believe it is our task to work closely together with the governments of allied countries. The world has enough problems requiring us to progress in our foreign policy cooperation just as we always have done working together with Great Britain."
Johnson is viewed with huge suspicion in Germany, not least since his remarks that the EU resembled Napoleon and Hitler in wanting to build a European superstate. But in Berlin, where the political will was overwhelmingly in favour of Britain staying in the EU, the leave campaigner's appointment is seen as a clear signal that contrary to hopes May would try to stall or even prevent a Brexit, she fully intends to implement it.
 Related:  Theresa May vows to make success of Brexit as cabinet meets for first time
Merkel is unlikely to ask May to explain the appointment but the decision will hang over the British prime minister. As Klaus Remme, a radio commentator for the state broadcaster DLF put it: "When Theresa May was able to assert herself, many here breathed a sigh of relief. A few hours later after she appointed Boris Johnson, many groaned once again. What does that tell us about the new prime minister?"
Amid the many uncertainties, a pressing one is how to pronounce her name. "Having spent years at school learning to get our German tongues round the British 'th', we're disappointed to find we don't actually need it to say her name," said Dirk Müller, a journalist with the Cologne radio station WDR. But May's choice of Berlin as her first foreign port of call has gone down well. She could after all have chosen Paris, as previous new leaders have.
"In Berlin this is being judged as a show of appreciation for Germany and the desire to maintain a close relationship to Merkel despite the plans to leave the European Union," said a comment piece by the news organisation DPA. 
Yet despite doubts as to whether May's strategy can be trusted, German commentators have been largely full of praise for the sensible leadership they believe she has so far shown, as well as being in awe of her daunting task. "She has to patch up all the rifts, including the gulf between the poor and the rich, London and the rest of the country," said Bolzen. "And at the same she needs to find a new place for Great Britain close at the side of, but not in the EU. She needs to prove she is a woman for all eventualities." 
In a telling reflection of the scale of the uphill task as perceived by many Germans, May has been nicknamed Die Trümmerfrau (Rubble Lady) in the media, the name given to the women who helped clear the bombed-out ruins of cities after the second world war.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); TURKEY (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               235 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May will use first meeting with Merkel to tackle Brexit head on

BYLINE: Francis Elliott ;David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1015 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The prime minister has promised to speak "frankly and openly" to Angela Merkel about Brexit when the two women meet today for the first time.
Theresa May is expected to underline that she is no hurry to trigger the two-year exit talks, despite claims from other EU leaders that triggering Article 50 is a prerequisite for negotiations.
She made clear before the meeting in Berlin with the German chancellor that she wanted to discuss some of the key issues immediately. "I do not underestimate the challenge of negotiating our exit from the European Union," she said. "I firmly believe that being able to talk frankly and openly about the issues we face will be an important part of a successful negotiation."
Mrs Merkel will tell Mrs May that she wants to keep trading and travel links with Britain as close as possible while resisting entering informal talks.
Mrs Merkel has come under huge pressure from German carmakers and other industry giants to ensure that trade continues free of tariffs after Britain's departure. Her stance contrasts with anger in some EU capitals and a desire to make an example of Britain - and explains why she is considered by Mrs May to be a key ally.
Sources in London said that Mrs May would be seeking a rapport with her opposite number during their talks and working dinner. She will go to Paris tomorrow for her first meeting with President Hollande.
Islam-inspired terrorism will be high on the agenda for both visits after the Bastille Day killings in Nice and an axe attack on a train in Bavaria on Monday. Top of Mrs Merkel's list is the future of Turkey and the impact of its failed coup on the flow of migrants to Europe.
Mrs Merkel has said that the next step in the Brexit process must be taken by Britain to set out the kind of relationship it wants with the 27 remaining members - something Mrs May's government has yet to agree. Formal talks will begin only once Britain begins the process set out in Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty.
Mrs Merkel will make clear, however, that she wants to protect trade with Britain, to which Germany exported more than 800,000 cars last year. She will add to the pressure on Mrs May to retain free movement of people by insisting, as she did to David Cameron, that it is the only way to keep full access to the single market.
"She wants to get a feeling for the new prime minister's thinking without going into any kind of negotiations," a source close to Mrs Merkel said.
i "There are some very pressing issues on the table besides Brexit, including Turkey, our fellow Nato member, and decisions about Syria. We will continue to share these major issues when Britain has left the EU - that is the attitude we are taking," the source said.
"We want to save as much of the closeness as we can."
n."  Mrs May will have talks over dinner tonight in the chancellery with Mrs Merkel and three or four advisors, all of whom speak English, although a translato f will be on hand. Mrs Merkel said last week that the remaining EU states shared the "objective to make sure that our membership is not hard hit or too much affected by the decision taken by the citizens of the UK.
"This is why we are going to lead the negotiations together in the spirit that we want to keep the impact as small as possible for all of us. But it is difficult to give guarantees at this point in time: we do not even have any idea about the position of the UK."
? Nick Clegg, the former deputy prime minister, will return to frontline politics to become Liberal Democrat spokesman on the EU. Mr Clegg, who has been an MEP and a trade negotiator at the European Commission, said that the absence of "meaningful opposition" from Labour meant that the government's Brexit strategy was not being subjected to sufficient scrutiny. The two leaders: just how much do they have in common? ANGELA MERKEL, 62, BELOW Mandate 18,165,446 votes at the 2013 election Father's occupation Protestant pastor in Templin, a town of 17,127 people Education Physics at Leipzig University, followed by doctorate in quantum chemistry Key moment Denouncing her mentor Helmut Kohl during a party funding scandal in December 1999 Government majority 377 Party support in latest opinion poll 32 per cent Leadership style Waits patiently for her moment and weighs up all sides before acting, crushes her rivals, avoids too much media exposure Nuclear stance Scrap 'em Culinary stance Not a domestic goddess: Nicolas Sarkozy said that he hated the cabbage soup she made Musical tastes Anything long by Richard Wagner; regularly attends performances of the Ring Cycle Holiday Summer mountain walking in the Alps and winter cross-country skiing, although she cracked her hip when she fell on ice in the Swiss Alps in 2014 Personal obsession German football team: she enjoys posing for selfies in the dressing room with sweaty soccer players.
Fashion statement Trouser suits Social media profile No time for Twitter or Facebook Nickname Mutti (Mummy) THERESA MAY, 59 Mandate 199 Tory MPs backed her; no voters took part in leadership contest Father's occupation Church of England vicar for parish of Wheatley in Oxfordshire, population 3,905 Education Geography at the University of Oxford Key moment on political rise Denouncing her own Conservatives as the "nasty party" in October 2002. Government majority 12 Party support in latest opinion poll 39 per cent Leadership style Waits patiently for her moment and weighs up all sides before acting, crushes her rivals, avoids too much media exposure Nuclear stance Nuke 'em Culinary skills Proficient pasta maker and enthusiastic cook with a spontaneous style. Her collection of 100 cookbooks does not include a single Delia Smith (Mrs May described her as inaccessible) Musical tastes Elgar's Cello Concerto, Abba's Dancing Queen and Mozart's Magic Flute all featured on her Desert Island Discs Personal obsession Fashion. She chose a subscription to Vogue as her luxury item on Desert Island Discs Fashion statement Leopard-print shoes Social media profile No time for Twitter or Facebook Nickname Iron Mayden (according to The Sun)
Graphic
John Kerry winces as an American journalist confronts Boris Johnson with a charge sheet of his insults, including calling Hillary Clinton a "sadistic nurse". The special relationship survives ... just


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               236 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: PwC forecasts no post-Brexit recession for Northern Ireland

BYLINE: Francess McDonnell

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 156 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Economic growth in the North is likely to fall to 0.2 per cent next year and, while Northern Ireland may escape tunnelling back into a recession after the Brexit vote, it could be close according to new forecasts published yesterday.
PwC's latest UK economic outlook highlights that the EU referendum result is expected to deliver a further slowdown in the UK economy, whose growth prospects had already eased back from 3 per cent in 2014 to about 2 per cent before the EU referendum.
The business services group is predicting that UK GDP growth could further drop back to about 1.6 per cent in 2016 and 0.6 per cent in 2017. 
But in the North the outlook is more gloomy with forecast growth slipping to about 1 per cent this year and sliding further to 0.2 per cent next year - which will position Northern Ireland as the worst-performing of 12 UK regions - behind both Scotland's forecast growth of 0.3 per cent and 0.4 per cent ror Wales .


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (78%); WALES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               237 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Republicans in Cleveland line up behind Trump to support Brexit; With Nigel Farage visiting Cleveland, prominent party figures weigh in on EU referendum that is 'only good for liberal progressives'

BYLINE: Ben Jacobs in Cleveland

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 718 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Donald Trump, one of the few international political figures to endorse Brexit, saw a party mostly united behind that stance at the Republican national convention in Cleveland this week.
The Republican nominee, who held a press conference in Scotland where he hailed the British vote to leave the European Union and "exercise the sacred right of all free peoples", has repeatedly taken credit for predicting the result in the month since and Republicans seem ready to echo him, with none expressing their disappointment with the result.
 Related:  Chris Christie's attacks on Clinton stoke convention mob mentality in Cleveland
Carl Paladino, a longtime Trump backer and former Republican nominee for governor of New York, hailed the result of the referendum. Paladino told the Guardian: "I think [the European Union] is only good for liberal progressives who want to go in there and use this union of bureaucrats to control people's lives, because that's their mission in life: to control every aspect of your life and make your life as miserable as possible." 
The outspoken New Yorker thought the referendum result was connected to Trump's rise in the United States. "I think the UK was just a preliminary symbol of what's happening in America right now." In Paladino's opinion, "the people are speaking up. The middle class has had enough of being marginalized. The establishment in our capital has taken it way beyond the reservation, way beyond the powers that the people have granted them, and it's time for that establishment to take a break and find something else to do in life."
Paladino was echoed by actor Scott Baio, the star of television sitcoms such as Happy Days and Joanie Loves Chachi, who gave an impassioned pro-Trump address on Monday night. Baio told the Guardian he thought Brexit was the right decision: "You left, I love it."
Nigel Farage, architect of the Brexit campaign, arrived in Cleveland to witness Donald Trump's remarkable rise to win the Republican nomination for president.
 Other delegates took more cautious approaches. Terry Branstad, the six-term governor of Iowa, pointed out: "The interesting thing is they were predicting the stock market is going to go to hell if we passed this, but we set all-time records." Branstad, who leads one of the most important agricultural states in the union, noted in his opinion: "The big problem has been European Union has been opposed to GMOs, but I think this change may be good for American farmers and may be helpful for United States - so I don't necessarily accept the conventional wisdom that this is bad." Branstad was simply frustrated because the "European Union has been a big problem throwing up barriers to GMOs for no scientific reasons, just purely to trying block trade from the United States and anything we can do to give us better access and eliminate some of that."
Branstad, who is the longest-serving governor in American history, did see some similarities between Brexit and the rise of Trump. "I think what it says is that there are a lot of people who are not happy with establishment in Europe, as well as here in America. Certainly not happy with the immigration policies and the danger that's created, and I think the policy last night, 'Make America safe again', I think that's a great message."
Rachel Hoff, a delegate from Washington DC who has come to national attention in recent days with her impassioned plea for gay rights on the Republican platform, committee took a cautious approach. "Time will tell if it's a good thing or bad thing for the United States." Hoff, who is a defense analyst at a Washington thinktank, didn't think "there will be a long-term effect on the economy". As she noted: "We saw a big slump right after and I don't think it will hold." Instead, Hoff said: "The main way it presents complications for us is in terms of our ability within Europe and within Nato to work with our partners there. The UK is obviously the foremost among them, given our special relationship with them, and our relationship gets a lot more complicated with the UK exiting."
However, the most common opinion on the floor may have been that of Curly Haugland, a veteran Republican activist from North Dakota. When asked what he thought about Brexit, Haugland simply said: "I have no idea, not a concern."


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: NEW YORK, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); SCOTLAND (75%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               238 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The champions of Brexit are like distressed orangutans

BYLINE: Michael Harding

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 690 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: I was woken in Cavan by the crows. They have been hanging around the chimney pots since before I was born and they seem to be able to endure the fires I light below and the smoke that rises up under their bums. Maybe it works like central heating for them. Or maybe they like to scorch their bottoms, as I used to do long ago when I was a little boy, perched on school radiators.
When the house was empty after my mother went to the nursing home, the crows built nests in the chimneys so that when I lit a fire the smoke eddied instantly into the room and I had to quench it with a saucepan of water.
The chimneys are clear now but the crows are still up there. I suppose we have developed the kind of uneasy relationship that animals enjoy with one another in the wild. We leave each other alone.
I lay in bed one morning listening to the noise in the chimney, as I drew comparisons between the crows on the roof and the Brexiteers in England. 
It's not that the champions of Brexit are as elegant as wild birds. On the contrary, they are more like caged beasts; like distressed orangutans in a zoo, perhaps. If they share anything with birds it is the madness of coots when their space on the ditch is threatened. 
And as my mother might have put it, "Mr Gove is some coot". 
He was profiled on a news programme one evening and he sounded like a cross between a schoolmaster in a Harry Potter story and a ferocious Christian Brother recently escaped from a wardrobe.
I've lived in south Ulster most of my life, and sometimes I travel around Lough Erne, thinking how blessed I am in this time of peace, as the Troubles gradually fade into history. The gunmen and soldiers have gone away, and south Ulster is now home to a multitude of artists and musicians on both sides of the Border, who make music and create beautiful objects to surprise and enrich the world. Art is like prayer; it is a response to that cloud of unknowing that the human mind can never domesticate.
But then I saw Michael Gove on the television. The programme profiled his political views over the years, and as my mother would have said, "he didn't mince his words". Apparently the inclusion of republicans in the peace process was akin to appeasing Nazis. And the English should have kept the SAS in the fields of Fermanagh, killing more people for longer, rather than signing up to an agreement that, according to Gove's logic, hollowed out the Britishness of Fermanagh's rivers and lakes. 
It's no wonder I wasn't able to get out of bed the following day. I was paralysed with such negative emotions I could hardly brush my teeth.
Giving my face the cat's lick 
But I often wake like that, full of bile and anger about Trump or Putin or some other loola in the public eye. And the only solution I have in such moments of distress is to take refuge in prayer.  
So once I had given my face the cat's lick, as my mother used to say, I went downstairs and squatted in front of a picture of the Buddha.
For me prayer is a nonviolent response to the universe and whatever orangutans it throws up. Prayer is a stillness wherein I accept with equanimity both the crows on the roof and the goons on the television. Passive prayer prevents me from storming into the Gala shops of the nation at 7am looking for war because I got out the wrong side of the bed.
When I misuse religion it becomes a kind of nostalgia for the past, full of rituals that chain me to ancient gods or demons, or some guilty thing I did long ago. And sometimes it's like doing the Lotto: an act of desperate hope in an unlikely future. 
But occasionally I rise above neurosis and become playful with my religious practice; prayer becomes a dance, like tai chi; a game of virtual love-making with the invisible, which dissolves the demons in my psyche. Only then do I find it possible to give my enemies the benefit of the doubt. Even Gove becomes an unfinished Buddha who, despite the karmic obstacles in his path, is trying to be compassionate in his doings. Much like a coot on Lough Erne or an orangutan in a tropical forest, or the crow on my chimney, Gove, as my mother would have said, "is doing his best". 


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ENGLAND (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               239 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK could ramp up fracking to boost post-Brexit energy supplies

BYLINE: Karolin Schaps

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 539 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: AFTER Brexit, the UK is being tipped to shift energy policy to favour domestic production including so-called fracking for gas.
A temporary ban was introduced in 2011 on the hydraulic fracturing - or "fracking" - technology used to extract gas from shale rock, but sections of the industry hope for support from new prime minister Theresa May.
Stephen Bowler, chief executive of London-listed shale gas developer IGas, told Reuters that Brexit made the case for shale more vital: "An independent Britain needs an independent supply of energy. Security of supply becomes even more important now."
Shale gas had a poor start in Britain. The first well to be fracked, near the seaside city of Blackpool in Lancashire, was abandoned when some of the work there triggered an earth tremor that resulted in an 18-month ban on the technology.
More recently, low energy prices have added to strains. "The weak gas price certainly doesn't help the economics. But there's still a lot of potential there," said David Round, analyst at BMO Capital Markets. "You'd expect costs to come down once you get a few years into the development."
Two months ago, Third Energy received the first planning approval for a shale gas fracking well since 2011. It says it will start hydraulic fracturing at its Kirby Misperton site in North Yorkshire before the end of the year.
Environmental group Friends of the Earth and a residents' anti-fracking group have applied for judicial review of the decision at London's High Court.
Other shale gas developers, including Ineos, IGas and Cuadrilla Resources, are now banking on government support for domestic energy sources and an offer of compensation to landowners to reinvigorate their campaign.
Cuadrilla aims to produce gas next year in the northwest, subject to planning approval, and Bowler's IGas plans to test first gas in northern England by 2018.
The UK government has already changed planning rules to speed up shale gas projects by giving the communities minister ultimate decision-making power on planning applications. A decision on whether to grant a permit under these new rules to Cuadrilla is due by October 6 and will be a first indication of government support for shale gas under the new prime minister. Australian engineer AJ Lucas owns 45pc of Cuadrilla.
Coal-fired plants are due to close in coming years, making Britain more reliant on natural gas. Britain's network operator said last week that the country may have to import 93pc of its gas by 2040 if economic growth slows and domestic gas production is not supported. Shale supporters say relying heavily on imports would make Britain more vulnerable to events out of its control that could divert supply.
Still, environmental campaigners intend to challenge shale gas, which they say would undermine Britain's target to reduce carbon emissions by at least 80pc below 1990 levels by 2050.
"Theresa May should not be under the illusion that fracking is the answer to the UK's energy needs," said Daisy Sands, head of energy at Greenpeace.
In a 2013 protest at the Cuadrilla-managed Balcombe oil exploration site south of London, demonstrators chained themselves to gates. Some were arrested, including Caroline Lucas, the Green Party's only MP. (Reuters)


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               240 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK growth forecast cut by IMF after Brexit vote

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 387 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The International Monetary Fund has cut its growth forecast for the UK and the global economy after the vote to leave the European Union.
The fund called the Brexit vote a risk for the entire world economy and said that there would be a "substantial increase in economic, political and institutional uncertainty", especially in Europe.
Britain's decision had added "downward pressure to the world economy at a time when growth has been slow", Maurice Obstfeld, an economic counsellor at the IMF, said.
The organisation, which had said already that it could see no economic benefit in Britain leaving the EU, now expects the UK's economy to grow by only 1.3 per cent in 2017. This is 0.9 percentage points lower than the estimate made in April because it expects a "significant" fall in domestic demand. Only Nigeria received a sharper downgrade to growth among the 16 economies analysed by the IMF.
Despite the downgrade, the UK's economy will perform better than both Germany and France, both of which are forecast to grow by 1.2 per cent. Economists at the IMF expect the world's economy to grow by 3.1 per cent this year and 3.4 per cent in 2017, a cut of 0.1 percentage points for both years. The relatively minor downward revision to global growth was because of stronger economic activity driven by the rise in oil prices and extra investment in infrastructure in China. Mr Obstfeld said that the IMF had been planning to revise up its growth forecasts for the world economy but Brexit had "thrown a spanner in the works". He added that information surrounding the vote's impact on global growth remained very limited.
The organisation said that its forecasts were based on the assumption that the EU and the UK would manage to avoid "a large increase in economic barriers" and that there would be "no major financial market disruption, and limited political fallout from the referendum". However, it has also drawn up "severe" scenarios for the next two years, which include most of the UK's financial services relocating and Britain failing to agree a trading agreement with the EU.
After the report was published, a spokesman for the Treasury said: "The message we take to the world is this: our country remains open for business. We are the same outward-looking, globally minded, big-thinking country we have always been."


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NIGERIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               241 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Uncertainty over Brexit raises key questions on road safety; Our Road Safety Authority expert holds out hope UK expertise will not be lost in parting of ways

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: MOTORS;NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 610 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THIS week's article was intended to examine the consequences of Brexit on road safety. But when I asked colleagues to list any side effects, all I kept hearing was that they just don't know yet. Things are 'uncertain'.
In the short term nothing is going to change, so it's business as usual. However, the medium to long term? Well we just don't know. It's simply impossible to say right now what the consequences of a Brexit mean for road safety.
So, instead, this piece will focus on the areas that will need to be clarified, in the months and years ahead.
The UK has been a trailblazer when it comes to road safety, employing strategies to tackle road deaths and injury.
It's one of the safest countries, not only in Europe, but in the world. Last year there were 27 road deaths per million inhabitants in the UK, making it the third safest country in the EU.
Malta was the safest at 26 followed by Sweden at 27 deaths per million. Ireland was joint fifth with Spain at 36 fatalities per million.
It continues to be a bestpractice model for Ireland and the EU. In this regard I don't think there will be any change. It has been a pioneer in road safety research too. It provides valuable data to the Commission, the OECD, the European Statistics System and CARE database, and there seems to be every indication this will continue.
The UK government's input to the EuroNCAP vehicle safety rating system won't be affected either and the word on the street suggests it is unlikely to adopt vehicle standards that do not comply with EU regulations. So that's good news.
How or whether the UK will diverge from the common EU commercial operator licensing, driving and working-time rules, which benefit road safety and level the competitive playing field, is as yet unknown.
We have worked closely and successfully with UK authorities to share enforcement data around out of state offences committed by Irish and UK truck and bus drivers and much of this is within the EU regulatory context.
Stepping outside EU data sharing regulations is likely to mean a new framework will need to be put in place to facilitate this work.
Clarification will be needed on the regulations around driver licensing and testing. While it's extremely difficult to say how it will impact, we do know there will be changes, because the driving licence is an EU document. The new EU credit card licence was introduced in January 2013 and the UK was part of the change.
Rolling back from this and the many regulations and entitlements that have evolved over decades that go with it will have to be dealt with. It will be an EUwide decision on how UK licences will be treated and recognised across the EU.
Of course the impact Brexit will have on the development of future and current EU road safety laws is, to use that word again, 'uncertain'. Take the new EU Cross Border Enforcement Directive. This will give EU members states the power to chase fines imposed on drivers from other EU states who commit traffic offences in their country.
It is estimated that a foreign registered car is about three times more likely to commit a traffic offence than a domestically registered one. The benefits for Ireland of such an arrangement would be significant, allowing authorities both north and south of the border to chase drivers for payment of fines for road safety offences committed in each other's jurisdiction, for example. The prospect of this happening as a result of Brexit is unclear.
At best, Brexit means engineering a new way to keep doing what we've always been doing.
At worst it means a potential loss of shared rights and the addition of new layers of regulations to comply with and enforce.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MALTA (56%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               242 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Well done Britain': Brexit vote boosts French far-right's election machine; With parliamentary and presidential votes looming, the Front National wants to capitalise on the UK's decision

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis in Mantes-la-Ville

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1199 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Outside Mantes-la-Ville's 19th-century town hall stand two tall flagpoles with vast French tricolours flapping in the breeze. One of these used to be the European Union's circle of gold stars on blue. But when a far-right mayor from the anti-immigration, anti-EU Front National was elected here, one of his first symbolic gestures was to pull down the European flag.
Mantes-la-Ville, 30 miles west of Paris, is the first town to be run by the Front National in the Île-de-France region that surrounds the capital. The mayor - Cyril Nauth, a 34-year-old high school history and geography teacher - won by just 61 votes in 2014 after a campaign centred on opposing the installation of a Muslim prayer room and a local mosque. His victory showed how the far-right party is expanding beyond its traditional heartlands on the French Riviera or in the de-industrialised former coal-mining areas in the north. 
The horrific Bastille Day attack on Nice, in which a Tunisian delivery driver killed 84 people when he drove a heavy lorry at full-speed into a crowd watching fireworks, will be a defining concern in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. The Front National, which has accused the political class of failing to protect France, has already seen an increase in membership applications since the attack. Its key issues of security, immigration and national identity will dominate the debate.
But Brexit - which has provided the Front National's leader, Marine Le Pen, with a public relations boost and comforted her anti-EU stance - will also play a role in the party's manifesto and it has sought to capitalise on it. 
"Brexit is undeniably a historic moment," Nauth told the Guardian. "It will change the general state of mind ... French ruling parties, whether Les Républicains or the Socialists, have claimed for years that the European Union construction was absolutely unavoidable - we could do nothing against it and we could never leave. And yet the British, thanks to the very courageous vote of their people, have now totally demolished that theory." 
The fact that immigration was one of British leave voters' key concerns has particularly interested the party. "Immigration is one of the most important political issues at the start of the 21st century," Nauth said. "Little by little, the ideas of patriotism and sovereignty are growing with each election [in Europe], that is very encouraging for us in France and for the Front National." 
Polls have shown that Le Pen will make it to the final round of the French presidential election next spring, but fall short of actually winning. But the parliamentary elections that follow are just as important, and could see Le Pen's party make big gains. Brexit - which reinforces Le Pen's stance against immigration and her calls for a similar in-out EU referendum in France - comes in handy for the party's election machine.
Mantes-la-Ville echoes the concerns of many in English towns who voted to leave. With a population of 20,000, it was once a town of factory workers with several large plants, including one making clingfilm. De-industrialisation hit and many of those factory jobs have been lost. Unemployment is higher than the local average. 
"Well done Britain, getting your autonomy and independence back," said Natalie Aubry, 48, who ran a beauty parlour and tattoo business. "I think the European Union is nonsense really." 
Aubry, who plans to vote for Le Pen as president, said of the traditional French political class: "Those in power are liars and manipulators, arrogant and only interested in their own profit, not in people like us." She praised the Front National mayor for "rubbish collection and keeping streets clean" as well as making people feel "safer". Although she didn't agree "100%" with Le Pen's programme, she said she would vote for her as president because she wanted French sovereignty back. "Marine Le Pen is more loyal to France than anyone else who has been in government. Le Pen is a woman who loves France." 
One 52-year-old head of a local security company, who did not want his name published, had voted for the rightwing former president Nicolas Sarkozy in the past but would not do so again. "I used to be pro-European Union, but now I think it brings us more problems than benefits. At some point, we have to just stop immigration once and for all, stop letting people in. Politicians here always say they will act on immigration, yet they never do." 
Florence Faucher, professor of political science at Paris's Sciences Po University, said there were parallels between Front National voters in France and those who backed Ukip in the UK, particularly the sense of those who felt "left behind", who hadn't benefited from globalisation, feared the insecurity in the job market and worried about their future. But she said the Front National, "even if it is strong on sovereignty, remains much more anchored in its old anti-immigration stance".
Whether Brexit affects the Front National's showing in 2017 depends on how smoothly Brexit goes for the UK. If things get messy, it could weaken Le Pen's argument for a French exit, or "Frexit".
"The first reflex, once the Brexit result came out, was to say 'yes, Brexit is an advantage for the Front National and all the similar parties in Europe'. But the truth is it's a bit early to say," said Jean-Yves Camus, political scientist and expert on the Front National. 
Camus said Le Pen could benefit from the fallout from Brexit in two ways. If it worked, the Front National could say Britain was leading the way in leaving the EU. And if the Brexit vote was somehow not respected by Westminster, Le Pen could be bolstered in her outrage. "The Front National could say that the British public voted by a majority to leave and their vote wasn't taken into account," Camus said. 
Le Pen has promised an in-out referendum on French membership of the EU if she wins the presidential election. But for the time being, any Frexit is unlikely. Although French voters are increasingly critical of the EU, they are much less clear cut about it than the British.
"It's more nuanced," said Didac Gutierrez-Peris of the pollsters Viavoice. "In France, people can be critical of the EU while at the same time not wanting to actually leave the EU."
A Viavoice poll of French people after the Brexit result found 68% felt decisions made in the EU had gone "in the wrong direction" in recent years. But 61% thought if France left the EU, there would be negative consequences. 
"I don't think France would ever leave Europe," said Michel Boucher, a retired confectionery salesman from a quiet residential street in nearby Magnanville, where last month a man claiming allegiance to Islamic State carried out a gruesome murder of a police commander and his partner.
"We don't vote Front National, but we do understand why people turn to them - because they're so fed up and angry about unemployment, the economy or what they see as too many foreigners in France," said his wife Syvlie, a retired childminder. 
"People vote Front National because they want to change things and to strike fear into the political class, and in any case I can only see that increasing." 


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               243 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 20, 2016 Wednesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Whitehall and Brussels hunt for 'British model'; Brexit

BYLINE: Alex Barker in Brussels

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1284 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Where will the road to Brexit end? Theresa May, Britain's prime minister, travels to Berlin today to meet Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, in the first leg of a political journey whose final destination remains uncertain.
There are plenty of package solutions, ranging from Norway to Canada and even Albania. The problem is that UK and Brussels officials are unconvinced any will work. Brexit is likely to end with a one-of-a-kind result.
The search has begun for "the British model". Here the FT explores four possible scenarios, viewed through the perspective of the process rather than the outcome. They represent different paths: hostile divorce, a clean break, an amicable transition and a change of heart, in which Brexit is averted.
The British model is, to some extent, the sum of all the cold calculations, surprise twists and political tantrums over that journey. "The real question is not about the model in the end," said Pierre Vimont, a seasoned French diplomat who led the EU diplomatic service. "It is how the negotiation will go and whether it will turn nasty or not."
1 Hostile divorce
The scenario Talks collapse. Britain exits the EU with minimal transitional arrangements, losing most, if not all, preferential access to the EU single market. It sets out to become a low-tax, light-regulation magnet for global businesses, aggressively undercutting its EU neighbours.  The assumptions  Amid tensions over UK procrastination or EU demands on Britain, London would be willing to threaten to go it alone as a low-tax global trading hub, and then see the threat through.  The verdict  Mrs May does not favour this course. But officials on both sides fear it could happen anyway. Derrick Wyatt QC, a scholar of EU law, told parliament of "huge risks" if politicians' "blood is up" and unilateral measures are taken.
But some advocate a fast break-up, to let Britain rework its rules and tax system to attract global business and new prospects for the City of London. David Davis, Brexit minister, confidently predicted a trade area "10 times the size" of the EU in time for an exit in 2019.
EU officials recognise the threat of a light-touch business haven off the shores of continental Europe could lead the bloc to make concessions on trade. But while the economics might work for the City, the rest of the UK economy could suffer without a substantive trade deal with the country's biggest market.
2 A clean break
The scenario Relations between Britain and the EU are strained but solid enough to arrange a tariff transition, agree trade terms and ratify the deal in the European Parliament and 38 national and regional assemblies.  The assumptions This assumes that the price for a deep UK-EU association agreement is too high to meet - because of issues related to sovereignty or immigration - but that the political will remains to agree favourable trading arrangements.
British financial services would lose their EU "passport" to sell products and raise funds throughout the single market and have only limited access in specific areas. Goods tariffs remain low. Political goodwill on both sides would be required to see through a multiyear wait for ratification, and near continuous further negotiations to cope with changes in UK or EU market rules.  The verdict This scenario accommodates two political red lines: Britain's need for immigration controls, and the EU's allegiance to free movement and the single market's founding principles. But that political space comes at an economic cost.
Focusing on a trade deal would curb how Britain can sell itself in the world economy. If the UK shows too much competitive independence from the EU, either in regulation or tax, it would risk trade access terms and the ratification of any deal.
Companies would also face years of uncertainty. "If it takes a decade or more to sort this out and get clarity on trade, some businesses will ask some serious questions," said Adam Marshall of the British Chambers of Commerce, adding that some would see the upside of quickly cutting loose and "at least having certainty".
Transition arrangements are possible. EU officials have looked at a model where the two sides mutually agree to not raise goods tariffs while a trade deal is completed. Services would be more vulnerable.
"My sense of the outcome, when you look at the politics and all the variables, is a relatively modest trade deal," said Pascal Lamy, who has been both EU trade commissioner and head of the WTO.
"The big question is whether they win [over] the British people once they think about that and if it is genuinely in the interests of the UK."
3 Amicable transition
The scenario Talks are difficult but amicable; disruption is minimised; changes are phased. Britain remains part of the EU single market, but on adjusted terms.  The assumptions Brexit Britain is satisfied with more control over some policy areas, such as agriculture. Crucially, the EU allows an "emergency brake" that could restrict the inflow of EU migrant workers in overloaded job sectors. In return, the UK forgoes almost all its influence on EU rules that it must follow. The financial services "passport" remains, but its value is eroded over time. Britain still contributes to the EU budget, but pays slightly less.  The verdict This is the preferred continuity option for big business and the City. There are two big potential flaws. The first concerns limitations to free movement. Britain must win concessions not only from pro-migration eastern European countries, but from France and the Netherlands, which do not want to set a precedent for anti-EU populists.
The second issue is whether this would be enough for Britain. Some EU officials think compromise is possible, but only on carefully limited migration curbs.
The UK would be a rule- taker on the single market, obliged to follow EU laws on everything from financial services to digital policy.
Mr Vimont reckons losing the right to set rules would be an impossible sell for the British prime minister even if control of free movement is regained.
"It is the worst of both worlds," he said. "Britain has been a member state. Contrary to Norway or Switzerland, it has tasted the other life. That makes a difference."
4 Change of heart
The scenario Britain invokes Article 50 of the EU treaties, known as the "exit clause", but pulls out of the formal process before it is complete, remaining a full EU member.  The assumptions  This scenario rests on a counter-revolution in British politics. After talks Mrs May or a future prime minister may fail to win voter approval for an exit deal either in another referendum, or in a general election.
Alternatively, EU politics may dramatically change, making the terms of EU membership, or some form of "associate membership", look more appealing to Britain. Economic hardship in the wake of the Brexit vote would be an important factor.  The verdict This is in the hands of the political gods. As one senior British official said: "If we stay in the EU, it will be by mistake." Mrs May has promised that "Brexit means Brexit" and it would be a brave politician to reverse course without a fresh voter mandate.
But this is a long, uncharted process. The option to remain in the EU will probably remain well into late 2018 or 2019, even after Article 50 is invoked. By that point, Europe will have been through French, German, Dutch and Austrian elections that could upend politics on the continent.
Sir Christopher Meyer, a former senior UK diplomat, said: "This is a case where we hang loose, we trust in God, and we keep our powder dry, and we don't take the decision until very near the moment when we take the decision."
Martin Wolf and Sarah O'Connor page 9


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ALBANIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORWAY (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (77%); AL Albania; CA Canada; DE Germany; NO Norway; GB United Kingdom; XR Americas; QB Eastern and Central Europe; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               244 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could prove to be a golden opportunity for Ireland's miners; As Brexit sent many scurrying from currencies there was one area that was deemed as a safe haven. And Conroy Gold is enjoying a knock-on benefit, its chairman tells Michael Cogley

BYLINE: Richard Conroy

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1087 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: HE negatives of Britain's shock decision to leave the EU have been well documented. Some commentators Thave found it difficult to see any upside from Brexit with a potential UK recession being mooted. As share prices in Ireland and the UK plummeted following the vote, there was one place investors highlighted as a safe haven. It was gold.
Swathes of UK gold companies reported major increases in transactions after June 23 as Britons sought refuge from what seemed an open-ended plunge in the value of sterling.
However it isn't just companies selling gold that are benefiting from the uplift in demand: Irish exploration firm Conroy Gold and Natural Resources has began to feel a welcome knock-on effect.
Conroy chairman Professor Richard Conroy said that despite a lack of saleable gold, the economic situation has a major impact on his business.
"When we're doing our economics on a potential gold mine, it becomes very important and it's also important in various other ways, in that the major and intermediate companies obviously have a greater interest in doing a joint venture and that's to our advantage for the actual development of a mine when the emphasis is on gold.
"There are a number of elements which impinge on us but we can't directly sell the gold because we haven't as yet produced any," Mr Conroy said.
"If you're a major gold company you will be all the more anxious to do a deal with a much smaller company such as ourselves, which has the potential to discover a large quantity of gold."
The increase in demand for gold comes off the back of strong year for the company. Early last year Conroy slapped a potential value of (EURO)150m on Ireland's first commercial gold mine, at Clontibret in Monaghan. That valuation, Mr Conroy says, is still holding through more than a year on and actually tips it to rise in value rather than dip due to the increase in the price of gold.
In the year to date so far gold has experienced a big surge, rising from $1,078 ((EURO)978) per ounce in January to $1,331 per ounce in July.
While its value has fluctuated, dropping from a 2011 high of $1,864, Conroy's chairman still maintains it's a smart move to have some of your wealth made up of an investment in gold.
"It makes absolute sense for people to have a percentage in gold, certainly the Central Banks are indicating that. For the last number of years they have been steadily building up their reserves of gold.
"Central banks have been scarcely selling any gold at all over the last number of years. They feel that is advisable to do," he said. On Monday Conroy announced it had found four new gold zones on its Glenish target in Monaghan. The discovery was made in a 150 metre-wide structural corridor in the western part of the Glenish gold target.
The new zones were found partly in thanks to a capital raise the company completed in December.
Conroy Gold raised over half a million euros at the time for the further development of gold mines through a share placing and debt conversion.
That capital is still sufficient to keep the firm going as Mr Conroy ruled out the possibility of another capital raise in the not too distant future. "We've been fortunate to raise funds to keep out exploration going and very fortunately we've gotten the results as we've gone along but it's a very prolonged process."
Year-on-year the company continued to reduce its net loss down to (EURO)315,314, however making a profit doesn't seem to be a pressing concern just yet.
"Curiously not (intentions to bring down net loss), it may seem a contradiction but if you're running an exploration company your cash flow is outward not inward. Now we try to run a tight ship and watch all our expenses because we go as far as possible to see money going into the ground to make discoveries.
"We've been involved in the exploration business for many years and it takes a long time. For quite a long time people found it difficult in seeing Ireland as a major international base metals country.
"Now, if you go out to the big mining conferences in Toronto they'll immediately say 'Ireland - oh yes of course a zinc province'. But they don't think of it as yet of gold and we're hoping that gradually that message will get across."
Mr Conroy has previously spent time in medicine and politics before taking on the Irish mining scene, something he finds there is a peculiar lack of awareness about.
"It's remarkable the contrast in Finland, they're very conscious of their mining industry, they encourage it in every way that they can, they are very upmarket, they're very good environmentally and technically.
"Whereas here in Ireland we don't even know about it. In fairness to people here, those involved in the Geological Survey here and in the Geological Survey in Northern Ireland, they are enormously helpful. They have very high quality people.
But when you go beyond that circle of people it's surprising how little is known about mining."
The former senator said Ireland as a country is missing a trick in not capitalising on gold mining, saying it has genuine potential for job growth.
Ireland doesn't seem to be a hard sell either compared to the more familiar destinations for mining.
"People imagine that a mine out in Africa or somewhere in the Australian outback would be financially more attractive but there's more to it than that.
"As well as the actual financial situation, which in Ireland is quite attractive, not because of the tax, but because you have a good infrastructure, you have a good power supply, you're not flying expats out to Liberia or wherever it is.
"Ireland has many attractions and it's also considered as politically stable."
Conroy looked at gold in the nineties and believed it was vastly undervalued. As a result the company is now looking at potential benefits from its early investment. However, Mr Conroy said it has been a "long hard process".
The company remains comparatively "tiny" to other larger gold companies, employing just ten.
A return on investment is hoped for fairly rapidly but the Conroy founder said the company is open to a joint venture with larger companies as it looks to exploit its gold targets dotted across Ireland.
In the meantime the company has seen a near 60pc increase in its share price since Britain shocked the world with its decision to leave the European Union.
If you go out to the big  ;  ;  mining conferences in  ;  ;  Toronto they'll  ;  ;  immediately say 'Ireland -  ;  ;  - oh yes of course a zinc  ;  ;  province'. But they don't  ;  ;  think of it as yet of gold  ;
Graphic
Central banks have been scarcely selling any gold at all over the last number of years,' said company chairman Richard Conroy


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); IRELAND (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               245 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May warns UK will not be rushed on Brexit; Europe's two most powerful women avoided direct focus on Brexit timing

BYLINE: Derek Scally

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 706 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: British prime minister Theresa May has warned her government will not be rushed into applying to leave the EU because London - and other European capitals - need time to prepare for Britain's "sensible and orderly" departure.
On her first foreign visit since taking office last week, May looked every inch the prime minister in Berlin, welcomed with military honours by German chancellor Angela Merkel under a Union Jack.
At their first meeting, Europe's two most powerful women underlined their mutual interest in maintaining friendly strong political and trade ties. It was a valiant effort to paper over the month-old Brexit cracks, but it didn't take long before they ran out of paper.
Asked about her first impression of the German leader, Ms May said it was "very important that we have two women here . . . who get on with the job and who both want to deliver the best possible results for the people of UK and Germany".
But an amused Dr Merkel brushed aside the chance to say something uplifting about women in power. Instead she pointed out the Brexit elephant in the room. 
Not negotiations
 "We need to find a solution to a question that hasn't been raised yet," she said, a nod to Britain's refusal to start EU divorce proceedings. As a result, she said, their face-to-face meeting was "not negotiations: neither formal nor informal".  
"We will of course need to get an idea of what ideas Britain has regarding withdrawal," said Dr Merkel, with a note of warning: "We don't want an impasse, the British people don't want it but the EU doesn't want it either."
Berlin and other EU capitals insist London must file a formal application to extricate itself from the bloc before they can talk about a future relationship. But Ms May insisted she wouldn't be rushed into doing so until Britain - and everyone else in Europe - has done their homework.
"This will take time and will require serious and detailed work," she said, adding that Britain's formal application would not come before the end of the year. "I'm aware that won't please everyone but it is important to provide clarity on that now."
Amid the smiles, it was the first frisson of tension. Another came when a German journalist asked Ms May what she was thinking when she appointed Brexit campaigner Boris Johnson as her foreign secretary.
Avoiding Mr Johnson's blonde ambition, Ms May insisted her cabinet would work together to build good relations abroad. 
Spotting an opening, Dr Merkel said she was sure Mr Johnson would work closely with the 27 EU foreign ministers on pressing challenges of the day, from security to migration issues.
On the latter, Ms May repeated that she viewed the Brexit vote as a vote in favour of controlled, vastly reduced inward migration to Britain from the EU. Upcoming talks, she said, would be about striking the best balance between migration and trade.
Dr Merkel declined to comment directly on the dilemma of balancing Britain's hope to access the EU's single market without accepting the flip side: free movement of EU goods, services and people.
True to her refusal to enter negotiations, the German leader stuck to her tone of conciliatory impatience, calling for a deal with Britain that "created respect, built on the principle of friendship" - but one that hinged on Britain offering a "certain timeline" over its exit.
Ms May can expect an even firmer push for a Brexit timetable  when she meets French president François Hollande today in Paris, determined that Britain is made an example of over its departure.
But German president Joachim Gauck urged EU leaders not to adopt an "aggrieved posture" that would make Britain "feel the consequences of their decision in . . . a particularly hard way".
Clever tactics
 Back at the press conference, there was a hint of what lies ahead between the two leaders when the British visitor, confidence growing by the minute, tried to commandeer the journalists' questions. Dr Merkel intervened firmly to take back control.  
"Negotiating with Great Britain is always an exhausting experience but interesting and tactically clever," Dr Merkel said. 
Looking ahead to Britain's EU departure, she added: "We are going to try and compete in terms of diplomatic tactics to retain a level playing field."


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               246 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The moaners mustn't be allowed a second vote; Because Brexit means Brexit, Vote Leave needs to be reconvened to stop Remainers getting ideas above their station

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 898 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Heath was best known for two things: taking Britain into Europe and, after his loss of the Tory leadership to Margaret Thatcher, his thirty-year "incredible sulk". It is perhaps appropriate therefore that in his absence many of today's defenders of the European Union have responded to Brexit's victory with their own versions of childish foot stamping.
Even before the last referendum votes had been counted, on the morning of June 24, the Liberal Democrats (yes, "Democrats") vowed to overturn the British people's decision. Last weekend the Labour MP Chris Bryant suggested that Brexit had helped to cause last weekend's failed Turkish coup.
I'm not sure if he also blames leaving the EU for the Russian doping scandal. The leading atheist Richard Dawkins, angry at the population's failure to heed his advice to remain, has graciously announced that he'll believe in Brexit but only if the vote is held again. I wonder if he also thinks that general elections should be held twice?
Plenty of Remainers have, of course, accepted the referendum result. Theresa May hasn't just said that "Brexit means Brexit" but has appointed strong Leave supporters to the Foreign Office, Defra and to the new "exiting the European Union" and international trade ministries. That Boris Johnson, David Davis, Liam Fox and Andrea Leadsom readily accepted those jobs does undermine the repeated accusation that Brexiteers were running away from what they wished upon the nation.
Britain has undoubtedly been through choppy waters since June 23. Unexpectedly, we voted to terminate a relationship with the EU that we've had for 43 years. We've seen our prime minister resign. The leader of the opposition lost the support of 80 per cent of his MPs. Financial markets have rollercoasted. But, as proof that we are a more mature and solid economy than our country's domestic detractors would have us believe, experts now think we'll avoid recession. The UK is forecast to grow faster than Germany or France next year. The Reed recruitment group has reported that 150,000 more job vacancies have been added to its website in the three weeks since Brexit than in the same period last year. Siemens has reversed a prereferendum threat to disinvest from Britain. Japan's SoftBank has launched a £24 billion acquisition of a leading UK tech company. When, last week, I tried to book a hotel in London I found nearly everywhere full.
There will, of course, continue to be economic turbulence (not least because the world outlook was already poor) but Britain does, at least, now have a new government in place. As Theresa May, I hope, recalibrates economic policy by borrowing more for infrastructure, cutting corporation tax and prioritising trade pacts with the non-European parts of our world that are growing, we can make a success of Brexit. Current opinion polls do suggest that claims from Remoaners of widespread buyer's remorse have been exaggerated. One survey by ComRes found that only 29 per cent of voters want a second referendum and 57 per cent do not. That might change, of course. The Brexit negotiations might get nasty as they often do in the earlier stages of a divorce. Mrs May's government might also become unpopular and contaminate Brexit.
The Ted Heath tendencies among the Remain camp will also pass and they'll get organised. We learn already that the likes of Paddy Ashdown and the environmentalist Jonathon Porritt are exploring the establishment of a new progressive pro-EU movement. Most significantly, in Owen Smith, who hopes to succeed Jeremy Corbyn as leader of the Labour Party, we have a potential leader of the opposition who has suggested revisiting Brexit. It is not impossible to see circumstances in which an unpopular Tory administration is defeated by a Labour Party that promises to keep Britain in the EU but with an emergency brake on immigration of the kind that David Cameron sought but was denied.
Once Article 50 is triggered I think it will be hard to stop Brexit - but not impossible. Active consideration is being given by the people who established the Business for Britain group, from which Vote Leave emerged, to establish a new Eurosceptic force in British politics to ensure that there is no retreat. It might be necessary. The British establishment - including all the mainstream party leaders, former PMs, big business CEOs and global bigwigs - were stunned by their defeat but we shouldn't assume they won't regroup and find ways of diluting or even reversing Brexit.
The Vote Leave campaign, led by Matthew Elliott and Dominic Cummings was, with its 17,410,742 votes, the most successful political campaign in British history. But, bizarrely, it stopped functioning at 10pm on referendum voting day, leaving a post-result vacuum that was filled by Nigel Farage at one end of the spectrum and Remoaning nonsense at the other. The vacuum was particularly unsettling for EU migrants living in Britain who were fed sometimes frightening rumours about their status.
Fortunately we now have a government committed to Brexit, but a new iteration of the all-party Vote Leave campaign could usefully watch out for backsliding and tackle the emerging campaign for a second referendum. In honour of Mrs May it could be called simply "Deliver Leave".
Negotiations for Brexit could get nasty as they do in a divorce
The establishment may regroup and find ways of diluting Brexit


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               247 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The moaners mustn't be allowed a second vote; Because Brexit means Brexit, Vote Leave needs to be reconvened to stop Remainers getting ideas above their station

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 898 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Heath was best known for two things: taking Britain into Europe and, after his loss of the Tory leadership to Margaret Thatcher, his thirty-year "incredible sulk". It is perhaps appropriate therefore that in his absence many of today's defenders of the European Union have responded to Brexit's victory with their own versions of childish foot stamping.
Even before the last referendum votes had been counted, on the morning of June 24, the Liberal Democrats (yes, "Democrats") vowed to overturn the British people's decision. Last weekend the Labour MP Chris Bryant suggested that Brexit had helped to cause last weekend's failed Turkish coup.
I'm not sure if he also blames leaving the EU for the Russian doping scandal. The leading atheist Richard Dawkins, angry at the population's failure to heed his advice to remain, has graciously announced that he'll believe in Brexit but only if the vote is held again. I wonder if he also thinks that general elections should be held twice? Plenty of Remainers have, of course, accepted the referendum result. Theresa May hasn't just said that "Brexit means Brexit" but has appointed strong Leave supporters to the Foreign Office, Defra and to the new "exiting the European Union" and international trade ministries. That Boris Johnson, David Davis, Liam Fox and Andrea Leadsom readily accepted those jobs does undermine the repeated accusation that Brexiteers were running away from what they wished upon the nation.
Britain has undoubtedly been through choppy waters since June 23. Unexpectedly, we voted to terminate a relationship with the EU that we've had for 43 years. We've seen our prime minister resign. The leader of the opposition lost the support of 80 per cent of his MPs. Financial markets have rollercoasted. But, as proof that we are a more mature and solid economy than our country's domestic detractors would have us believe, experts now think we'll avoid recession. The UK is forecast to grow faster than Germany or France next year. The Reed recruitment group has reported that 150,000 more job vacancies have been added to its website in the three weeks since Brexit than in the same period last year. Siemens has reversed a prereferendum threat to disinvest from Britain. Japan's SoftBank has launched a £24 billion acquisition of a leading UK tech company. When, last week, I tried to book a hotel in London I found nearly everywhere full.
There will, of course, continue to be economic turbulence (not least because the world outlook was already poor) but Britain does, at least, now have a new government in place. As Theresa May, I hope, recalibrates economic policy by borrowing more for infrastructure, cutting corporation tax and prioritising trade pacts with the non-European parts of our world that are growing, we can make a success of Brexit. Current opinion polls do suggest that claims from Remoaners of widespread buyer's remorse have been exaggerated. One survey by ComRes found that only 29 per cent of voters want a second referendum and 57 per cent do not. That might change, of course. The Brexit negotiations might get nasty as they often do in the earlier stages of a divorce. Mrs May's government might also become unpopular and contaminate Brexit.
The Ted Heath tendencies among the Remain camp will also pass and they'll get organised. We learn already that the likes of Paddy Ashdown and the environmentalist Jonathon Porritt are exploring the establishment of a new progressive pro-EU movement. Most significantly, in Owen Smith, who hopes to succeed Jeremy Corbyn as leader of the Labour Party, we have a potential leader of the opposition who has suggested revisiting Brexit. It is not impossible to see circumstances in which an unpopular Tory administration is defeated by a Labour Party that promises to keep Britain in the EU but with an emergency brake on immigration of the kind that David Cameron sought but was denied.
Once Article 50 is triggered I think it will be hard to stop Brexit - but not impossible. Active consideration is being given by the people who established the Business for Britain group, from which Vote Leave emerged, to establish a new Eurosceptic force in British politics to ensure that there is no retreat. It might be necessary. The British establishment - including all the mainstream party leaders, former PMs, big business CEOs and global bigwigs - were stunned by their defeat but we shouldn't assume they won't regroup and find ways of diluting or even reversing Brexit.
The Vote Leave campaign, led by Matthew Elliott and Dominic Cummings was, with its 17,410,742 votes, the most successful political campaign in British history. But, bizarrely, it stopped functioning at 10pm on referendum voting day, leaving a post-result vacuum that was filled by Nigel Farage at one end of the spectrum and Remoaning nonsense at the other. The vacuum was particularly unsettling for EU migrants living in Britain who were fed sometimes frightening rumours about their status.
Fortunately we now have a government committed to Brexit, but a new iteration of the all-party Vote Leave campaign could usefully watch out for backsliding and tackle the emerging campaign for a second referendum. In honour of Mrs May it could be called simply "Deliver Leave".
Negotiations for Brexit could get nasty as they do in a divorce
The establishment may regroup and find ways of diluting Brexit


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               248 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Against globalisation or still open for business? Brexit can't mean both

BYLINE: Simon Nixon

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 869 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: '' "Brexit means Brexit and we're going to make a success of it," so Theresa May keeps saying. But what does Brexit mean? And how do you define success? Brexiteers themselves seem split on the question. Some are convinced that the European Union has been holding Britain back from engaging with the rest of the world and that Brexit will allow the UK to become an even more engaged global player. Others clearly voted for Brexit in protest at globalisation, believing that quitting the EU will allow the UK to "take back control" from unelected and unaccountable foreign bureaucrats, foreign bankers, foreign capital and foreign workers.
On which side of this divide the new prime minister falls remains something of a mystery. In her march on Downing Street, she appeared to side with the "Take Back Controllers", using a speech two days before she took office to take aim at some of the central tenets of British economic orthodoxy of the past three decades with talk of worker representation on boards, curbs on executive pay, an active industrial strategy, controls on migration and greater scrutiny of foreign takeovers. Yet days later her government hailed the £24 billion Japanese takeover of Arm Holdings, the UK's largest technology company, as a vote of confidence in Britain and proof that the UK remains "open for business".
On the face of it, SoftBank's takeover of Arm certainly looks like a clear victory for the global version of Brexit. The government didn't block the deal, even though its timing points to an opportunistic response to a Brexit-fuelled 30 per cent devaluation of sterling against the yen that allowed SoftBank to put a knockout price on the table. The government also ignored comments by one of Arm's founders, Hermann Hauser, that the sale was a "sad day for Britain", choosing instead to emphasise SoftBank's commitment to double the size of its 1,600-strong UK workforce and to maintain the headquarters in Cambridge.
But it would be a mistake to draw too hasty conclusions from this deal. After all, Arm is hardly a typical British company: it may be a core part of the Silicon Fen computer sciences ecosystem that has built up around the University of Cambridge, but only 30 per cent of its employees work in the UK and more than 70 per cent of its shareholders are foreign. As a designer, but not a manufacturer, of computer chips, Arm's business model is almost entirely unaffected by Brexit.
More important, the commitment to double the size of the UK workforce shows that the political goalposts have already moved for takeovers of British companies. This commitment may have been volunteered by SoftBank rather than demanded by the British government but without it the deal would have met political resistance, a SoftBank adviser says.
For SoftBank, this commitment certainly introduces an element of risk to the deal. After all, there is no business plan underpinning what amounts to a doubling in the size of Arm's UK business in only five years. The proposed expansion is double what Arm achieved over the past five years, implying a significant operational challenge to recruit and train suitably qualified staff. That challenge could prove an even greater stretch if, as seems plausible, some of Arm's post-takeover newly minted millionaire employees decide to leave the company, or if the UK introduces new post-Brexit restrictions on immigration that make it harder to recruit foreign engineers.
The UK's increasingly politicised approach to takeovers matters for two reasons. First, because the UK is running a giant current account deficit of 6 per cent of GDP. This is a major vulnerability, leaving the UK dependent - in the words of Mark Carney, the Bank of England governor - on the "kindness of strangers" to fund the UK's external liabilities by buying British assets. But the kindness of strangers is likely to depend in part on how the kindness of the UK itself is to strangers. Until now, the economy has shown a remarkable ability to recover from shocks, largely because of its openness to foreign capital and workers. To make a success of Brexit, the UK will indeed need to remain open - or risk the current account deficit being shrunk via a devalued sterling and a politically difficult squeeze on domestic incomes.
Second, the rest of the world will be watching how the UK resolves this conflict between the economic need to remain open for business and the growing political hostility to globalisation - and the conclusions drawn could have global implications. The International Monetary Fund this week cited Brexit uncertainty as the reason why it published three scenarios for global growth in its latest World Economic Outlook.
If Brexit is seen as a vote in favour of a more open, globalised economy, it may yet provide a competitive boost for governments around the world to push ahead with productivityenhancing reforms and new free trade deals. But if Brexit proves to be a vote in favour of economic nationalism, the result could be a drift to populist policies that lower growth and productivity. Both would be Brexit; only one would be a success.
Simon Nixon is the chief European commentator at The Wall Street Journal. Twitter @Simon_Nixon ''
Graphic
Masayoshi Son, chief executive of SoftBank, and Stuart Chambers, chairman of Arm Holdings, in Downing Street after news of the takeover was announced


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               249 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Against globalisation or still open for business? Brexit can't mean both

BYLINE: Simon Nixon

SECTION: BUSINESS; OPINION COLUMNS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 869 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: "Brexit means Brexit and we're going to make a success of it," so Theresa May keeps saying. But what does Brexit mean? And how do you define success? Brexiteers themselves seem split on the question. Some are convinced that the European Union has been holding Britain back from engaging with the rest of the world and that Brexit will allow the UK to become an even more engaged global player. Others clearly voted for Brexit in protest at globalisation, believing that quitting the EU will allow the UK to "take back control" from unelected and unaccountable foreign bureaucrats, foreign bankers, foreign capital and foreign workers.
On which side of this divide the new prime minister falls remains something of a mystery. In her march on Downing Street, she appeared to side with the "Take Back Controllers", using a speech two days before she took office to take aim at some of the central tenets of British economic orthodoxy of the past three decades with talk of worker representation on boards, curbs on executive pay, an active industrial strategy, controls on migration and greater scrutiny of foreign takeovers. Yet days later her government hailed the £24 billion Japanese takeover of Arm Holdings, the UK's largest technology company, as a vote of confidence in Britain and proof that the UK remains "open for business".
On the face of it, SoftBank's takeover of Arm certainly looks like a clear victory for the global version of Brexit. The government didn't block the deal, even though its timing points to an opportunistic response to a Brexit-fuelled 30 per cent devaluation of sterling against the yen that allowed SoftBank to put a knockout price on the table. The government also ignored comments by one of Arm's founders, Hermann Hauser, that the sale was a "sad day for Britain", choosing instead to emphasise SoftBank's commitment to double the size of its 1,600-strong UK workforce and to maintain the headquarters in Cambridge.
But it would be a mistake to draw too hasty conclusions from this deal. After all, Arm is hardly a typical British company: it may be a core part of the Silicon Fen computer sciences ecosystem that has built up around the University of Cambridge, but only 30 per cent of its employees work in the UK and more than 70 per cent of its shareholders are foreign. As a designer, but not a manufacturer, of computer chips, Arm's business model is almost entirely unaffected by Brexit.
More important, the commitment to double the size of the UK workforce shows that the political goalposts have already moved for takeovers of British companies. This commitment may have been volunteered by SoftBank rather than demanded by the British government but without it the deal would have met political resistance, a SoftBank adviser says.
For SoftBank, this commitment certainly introduces an element of risk to the deal. After all, there is no business plan underpinning what amounts to a doubling in the size of Arm's UK business in only five years. The proposed expansion is double what Arm achieved over the past five years, implying a significant operational challenge to recruit and train suitably qualified staff. That challenge could prove an even greater stretch if, as seems plausible, some of Arm's post-takeover newly minted millionaire employees decide to leave the company, or if the UK introduces new post-Brexit restrictions on immigration that make it harder to recruit foreign engineers.
The UK's increasingly politicised approach to takeovers matters for two reasons. First, because the UK is running a giant current account deficit of 6 per cent of GDP. This is a major vulnerability, leaving the UK dependent - in the words of Mark Carney, the Bank of England governor - on the "kindness of strangers" to fund the UK's external liabilities by buying British assets. But the kindness of strangers is likely to depend in part on how the kindness of the UK itself is to strangers. Until now, the economy has shown a remarkable ability to recover from shocks, largely because of its openness to foreign capital and workers. To make a success of Brexit, the UK will indeed need to remain open - or risk the current account deficit being shrunk via a devalued sterling and a politically difficult squeeze on domestic incomes.
Second, the rest of the world will be watching how the UK resolves this conflict between the economic need to remain open for business and the growing political hostility to globalisation - and the conclusions drawn could have global implications. The International Monetary Fund this week cited Brexit uncertainty as the reason why it published three scenarios for global growth in its latest World Economic Outlook.
If Brexit is seen as a vote in favour of a more open, globalised economy, it may yet provide a competitive boost for governments around the world to push ahead with productivityenhancing reforms and new free trade deals. But if Brexit proves to be a vote in favour of economic nationalism, the result could be a global drift to populist policies that lower growth and productivity.
Both would be Brexit; only one would be a success.
Simon Nixon is the chief European commentator at The Wall Street Journal. Twitter @Simon_Nixon
Graphic
Masayoshi Son, chief executive of SoftBank, and Stuart Chambers, chairman of Arm Holdings, in Downing Street after news of the takeover was announced


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               250 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: a golden opportunity Mining boss Richard Conroy on a bright future for the precious metal. Interview, [...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 18 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit: a golden opportunity Mining boss Richard Conroy on a bright future for the precious metal. Interview, p5


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               251 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit court challenge

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 27 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit court challenge should be celebrated: read the daily email - with all the latest news from the legal world Sign up for free www.thetimes.co.uk/thebriefemail


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               252 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit flight to safety stokes ECB dilemma; Policy rethink: Bond markets

BYLINE: Claire Jones in Frankfurt and Elaine Moore in London

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 685 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's vote to leave the EU has plunged the European Central Bank into a dilemma, in which it faces a difficult choice between constraints on its showpiece bid to aid the eurozone economy and potential big losses.
The issue will loom large when the bank's governing council meets today to discuss its response to the Brexit vote, which has stoked a flight to safety in bond markets, so potentially hobbling the ECB's ability to pursue its quantitative easing programme.
The dilemma is particularly acute for German government bonds, which represent the single biggest component of the ECB's EUR80bn a month debt-buying plan and whose yields have fallen markedly in the wake of the British vote - as has sovereign debt from countries such as Austria and the Netherlands.
As a result, eurozone central banks have struggled to buy sufficient bonds at prices that meet the ECB's rules.
"A quick fix to the current scarcity situation looks unlikely," said Ruairi Hourihane, a rate strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Under current rules, the scale of purchases under QE match the size of a member state's economy, meaning that Germany's Bundesbank must buy about EUR10bn of government debt each month - more than any other central bank in the region.
But because of the recent bond market shifts, more than 50 per cent of German bonds previously eligible for QE have become too expensive for the Bundesbank to purchase, yielding less than the ECB's self-imposed floor of minus 0.4 per cent, according to data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The ECB's ultra-loose monetary policy is already a deeply controversial issue in Germany, where negative interest rates have been widely denounced as hurting savers. Some of the possible solutions to any shortage of eligible bonds for QE would also be heavily politically charged in the country.
The ECB has insisted that scarcity is not a problem and that the design of QE is flexible enough to accommodate any shortages. But the possibility that the economic fallout of Brexit will lead the bank to extend QE beyond the scheduled expiry date of March 2017 has focused markets' attention on the issue.
Some analysts warn the ECB could hit shortages of eligible bonds within months, though this would only occur if the flight to safety proved persistent.
While the ECB might hold off from a firm decision this week, they add that a clear signal from Mario Draghi, ECB president, would calm jitters.
"Uncertainty over how the ECB will tweak the rules in future and scepticism that it will run out of bonds to buy serve no positive purpose," said Richard Barwell, economist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners. "Clarity now would be the perfect soft signal that officials are considering extending the programme beyond March 2017."
None of the options open to the central bank is without drawbacks. But one of the easiest would be to scrap the minus 0.4 per cent floor, the measure that economists at Goldman Sachs calculate would buy the ECB the most time, enabling the Bundesbank to keep on buying for up to another 18 months.
This option, however, would expose the eurozone's central banks to heavy losses, which they have until now avoided because the minus 0.4 per cent floor mirrors the ECB's deposit rate charged on banks' reserves.
The ECB views negative equity as a threat to central bank independence, maintaining that losses expose policymakers to pressure from politicians.
Another option would be to scrap the rule that bond purchases match the size of a member state's economy. But such a shift would open the way to buying more bonds from the most indebted countries, and would be the most controversial of the fixes. Nowhere would it attract more criticism in Germany, where the change would be viewed as a bailout by the back door for profligate states. Such an option would be the "end game", says Mr Barwell, who sees it as focusing the ECB's firepower on the region's most troubled big economy.
"With Italy having a significantly higher debt burden than the other large eurozone economies, it would mean ECB QE slowly morphing into Banca d'Italia QE," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (78%); AUSTRIA (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               253 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit spells opportunity for start-up AssureHedge; Dublin based fintech company aims to make currency hedging simple and affordable for SMEs

BYLINE: Olive Keogh

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 912 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Every cloud has a silver lining. For Dublin-based fintech start-up, AssureHedge, it's Brexit. AssureHedge has developed a platform that makes it easier for companies to eliminate uncertainty around their forex exposure. Brexit has provided a golden opportunity for it to showcase its solution. 
"Brexit has left many companies feeling like a deer caught in the headlights of a car - not least because over 90 per cent of SMEs affected by foreign currency risk do nothing at all to protect themselves," explains company founder and algorithmic trading systems designer, Barry McCarthy. 
"Of the companies that do take protective action, the majority turn to the inefficient, expensive and blunt solutions sold by banks, not least because it's a complex area that's difficult for the average business to navigate. We plan to change the status quo in a big way by giving smaller businesses access to exactly the same powerful foreign currency risk tools as the largest corporations and banks enjoy," says McCarthy, who spent 15 years as a financial markets trader in places as far afield as Singapore and Gibraltar. 
McCarthy graduated from UCD in 2000 with a B Comm. He then spent four months as an intern with UBS Warburg in London on the European equities desk. "This opened my eyes to the world of high finance and I was hooked," he says. 
A master's in economic science at UCD followed and McCarthy then joined Geneva Ireland Financial Trading. There he traded Eurostoxx 50 and Bund futures and was the top performer in its 40-strong trading team in 2004. McCarthy moved from Dublin to Gibraltar, where he spent three years as a private futures trader before moving to Singapore to co-found Blue Water Financials. 
In 2010 McCarthy moved back to Ireland "largely because I was missing home. I'm one of eight children and wanted to come home, settle down and start a family," he says. On returning home he began lecturing in financial trading while working on his idea for AssureHedge over a five-year period. The company was formally established last November and is based at the NDRC (Digital Hub) in Dublin, where McCarthy is participating in the Launchpad accelerator programme.
Low cost 
AssureHedge operates in a similar way to an insurance policy. A business pays a premium based on the value of the forex it needs insured and it is compensated if a loss is incurred. "What we're offering is a bit like travel insurance, but for currency, with a very simple user interface and easy-to-access quotation system," says McCarthy. "Our platform lets export-oriented SMEs take control of their own currency risk management and this is the first time there has been a low-cost and straightforward way for them to do so."  
AssureHedge's other smart feature is that it enables direct hedging between any two currencies. Up to now liquidity issues have restricted direct hedging to major currencies. An Indonesian company seeking to hedge the Rupiah against the Canadian dollar, for example, would have to undertake multiple transactions to do so, with each one representing an additional cost. AssureHedge eliminates this. 
"On the surface we want the user engagement to be easy, but underneath it's a complex process," explains McCarthy. "The customer break-even quote is calculated in real time by a combination of our pricing algorithms, [which are based on actual market bid and offer prices], and an internal theoretical calculation engine. This is the euro amount that we can offset the risk for zero profit. When the customer accepts the quote, our trading algorithms will offset the customer risk via the interbank FX markets. However, all that the user sees is a simple website window. They are unaware of the technology doing the heavy lifting in the background." 
Scale up 
McCarthy estimates the untapped hedging market potential in Ireland alone at about EUR 6 billion a year. "Our aim is to become the market-leading solution here to begin with, but because the platform is fully automated, it is relatively easy for the business to scale up to address global markets," he says. "I recently went to Silicon Valley with an Enterprise Ireland delegation to see if the product could work in the States. I'm pleased to say that SMEs there have the same risk issues as SMEs here. The system works in any currency, so its potential export reach is wide."  
To service the home market initially AssureHedge is in discussions with a number of banks about providing them with a "white label" version of the software they can self-brand. He is also hoping to spread the word by tapping into the Irish insurance brokers network. 
The company expects to employ about eight people within the next 12 months and is engaged in a funding round to help fulfil its regulatory and compliance obligations and accelerate the development of the business. McCarthy estimates the cost of developing the AssureHedge platform, which has been largely self-funded, at around EUR 400,000. The product will be formally launched in the first quarter of 2017. 
McCarthy's feet have not hit the ground since last November. "Hard work is not the problem. What's really challenging is the juggling. You simply never know where your attention will be pulled next. In a single day I find myself using vastly different skill sets to address issues such as regulation and compliance, financial forecasting for the business, or doing deals. This is definitely not the way to go for anyone seeking an easy existence."


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); IRELAND (88%); SINGAPORE (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               254 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 5:20 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: British retail spending drops sharply in June; ONS says volume of retail sales fell by 0.9% but soggy start to summer was bigger factor than Brexit vote

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 551 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's inclement weather rather than the EU referendum put the damper on consumer spending last month as sales of clothes and shoes slumped during a wet June.
Figures from the Office for National Statistics showed that high street chains were left with racks of unsold dresses, short-sleeved shirts and sandals during the period leading to and immediately after the Brexit vote.
                     The ONS said the volume of retail sales decreased by 0.9% between May and June after a rise of the same magnitude between April and May.
The figures provided the first hard evidence of the state of the economy since the referendum since they include retail sales in the five-week period from 29 May to 2 July.
But although the fall was larger than the 0.6% drop expected, the decline was particularly marked in the clothing and footwear sector, where volumes in June were almost 2% down on those recorded in May.
Over the three months to June, retail sales volumes were 1.6% higher than in the previous quarter.
The ONS said over the year to June every sector of retailing had enjoyed sales growth apart from clothing and footwear.
Melanie Richard, ONS head of retail sales, said: "All types of stores showed growth in June with the exception of clothing and footwear, which struggled again due to the changeable weather. But department stores continued to see strong sales compared with last June - boosted by events such as Father's Day, the Euro 2016 football and the Queen's official birthday."
Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight, said: "Retail sales fell back appreciably in June. This seemingly had little to do with the Brexit vote. 
"Some correction in retail sales was always likely in June after they had seen very strong growth in May and April and there was also a significant falling back in clothing sales due to unhelpful weather. The Office for National Statistics indicated that retailers had not given any evidence of the Brexit vote having a major dampening impact." 
Philip Hammond, the new chancellor, received mixed news from the latest snapshot of Britain's public finances, released separately by the ONS. The data showed that the Government borrowed less than expected in June alone but was off target to hit its deficit-reduction target for the first three months of the 2016-17 financial year.
The ONS said public borrowing in June stood at £7.8bn, compared with £10bn in the same month last year and the £9.5bn predicted by the City.
Hammond said the smallest June deficit since June 2007 - shortly before the onset of the financial crisis that prompted the biggest contraction of the economy since the second world war - showed that the economy was in good shape to cope with the aftermath of the Brexit vote.
But the ONS figures showed that deficit reduction in the first three months of the 2016-17 financial year was slower than forecast in George Osborne's March budget.
Osborne envisaged borrowing being cut by about a quarter in the current year. But during the first three months of the financial year, slow growth in tax receipts meant there was an improvement of just over 8%.
Analysts said there would be less good news on the public finances in the second half of 2016, since the decision to leave the EU would lead to slower growth and weaker public finances.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               255 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Business as usual: Bank reports no Brexit slump

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 311 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's firms have taken the Brexit vote in their stride and there are no signs of a sharp economic slowdown, the Bank of England said yesterday.
In its first assessment of the impact of the European Union referendum on June 23, the Bank said that most companies were adopting a "business-asusual" approach and were not cutting back on either investment or hiring.
The monthly economic health check said that there was "no clear evidence" of a slowdown in business activity or lending by banks to companies.
In a further boost to Theresa May and the new chancellor, Philip Hammond, the Bank's network of regional agents, who monitor on-the-ground activity, said that the housing market was proving more resilient than had been feared.
Its 12 agents, who have more than 8,000 business contacts, said that the referendum result had come as a shock to many businesses and that few had contingency plans in place. As a result, in the short term, the majority of companies did not expect to change their capital spending and few planned to alter either their hiring intentions or salaries.
The agents cautioned, though, that a third of all businesses expected some negative impact on their recruitment and investment plans over the next year.
The FTSE 100 closed at its highest level in 11 months and sterling jumped almost a cent against the dollar after the Bank's report and the publication of record-breaking jobs figures.
The employment rate hit 74.4 per cent in the three months to May, the highest since records began 45 years ago, according to the Office for National Statistics. The figures also showed that unemployment had fallen to 4.9 per cent, the lowest in more than a decade.
Downing Street will say that the report vindicates the rapid handover of power from David Cameron to Mrs May and the new prime minister's efforts to calm foreign leaders and the markets.
!


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%); Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               256 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Business as usual: Bank reports no Brexit slump

BYLINE: Tom Knowles ;Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 344 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's businesses have taken the Brexit vote in their stride and there are no signs of a sharp economic slowdown, the Bank of England said yesterday.
In its first assessment of the impact of the European Union referendum on June 23, the Bank said that most companies were adopting a "business-asusual" approach and were not cutting back on either investment or hiring.
The monthly economic health check said that there was "no clear evidence" of a slowdown in business activity or lending by banks to companies.
In a further boost to Theresa May and the chancellor, Philip Hammond, the Bank's network of regional agents, who monitor activity on the ground, said that the housing market was proving more resilient than had been thought.
Its 12 agents, who have more than 8,000 business contacts, said that the referendum result had come as a shock to many businesses, few of which had contingency plans in place. As a result, in the short term, the majority of companies did not expect to change capital spending and few planned to alter their hiring intentions or salaries. The agents cautioned, though, that a third of businesses expected some negative impact on recruitment and investment plans over the next year.
The FTSE 100 closed at its highest level in 11 months and sterling jumped almost a cent against the dollar after the Bank's report and the publication of record-breaking jobs figures.
Last night a senior Bank of England official warned against a premature cut in interest rates. Kristin Forbes, an external member of the monetary policy committee, argued that markets had stabilised and that no decision should be taken on rates "until more hard data is available". Her comments contrast with some of her colleagues, including Mark Carney, the governor, who said that he expected the Bank to cut rates over the summer.
Downing Street will say that the report vindicates the rapid handover of power from David Cameron to Mrs May and the new prime minister's efforts to calm foreign leaders and the markets. Record jobs total, page 2 Tim Montgomerie, page 25


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               257 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Canada launches diplomatic initiative to persuade EU to finalise $99bn trade agreement; Brexit aftermath

BYLINE: Simon Doyle in Toronto

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Stéphane Dion, Canada's foreign minister, is urging EU members to approve Europe's trade agreement with Canada to demonstrate that the bloc's focus on its post-Brexit ties to the UK has not left it "stalled".
Justin Trudeau 's government is leveraging its diplomatic resources to save its agreement with Europe , which governs trade in goods and services worth more than EUR90bn ($99bn) annually.
The EU-Canada Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement has declined in priority as European trade officials focus on the UK's future and Brussels has climbed down from EU-level approval of the deal. Instead, each member state will separately ratify it, if necessary by a vote in national parliaments.
Mr Dion argued that ratifying the Ceta would allow the EU "to show that they are able to go forward, that they are not stalled, they are not in regression".
"We will mobilise all of our resources to make sure that it will work," said Mr Dion, whose government is engaging European governments and opposition parties for support. "If they cannot ratify with Canada, with whom will they be able to do so?"
But member states' separate approvals of the Ceta will slow down the process, if not push it to the wayside as European trade negotiators focus on other priorities like a trade agreement with the US.
"We're potentially collateral damage," said Fen Hampson, a politics expert at the Centre for International Governance Innovation, a think-tank. He said Canada, still struggling amid low oil prices, might need to shift its focus to bilateral trade deals with regions seeing faster growth.
"Whatever happens to the Ceta, we need a double push toward the Asia-Pacific," Mr Hampson said.
The 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership, denounced by both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, seemed unlikely to be "the ship that launches our fortunes", he said.
The foreign minister warned that overturning the North American Free Trade Agreement would come with big costs through lost jobs and investment. "It's easier to say you will do it than to actually do it," Mr Dion said, without commenting directly on Mr Trump's threat to cancel Nafta.
Canada will explore options for improving trade with the UK once it has a better understanding of Britain's new arrangement with the EU, Mr Dion said.
"We already have strong links with the UK," he said: "We'll explore, certainly at that time . . . options to improve [trade] with the UK, but it will be easier to do so once we know what will be the relationship between the UK and the EU."
"Our priority is to ratify Ceta, and the UK will help with that," Mr Dion said. "The UK is part of the EU, the UK supports Ceta and when Ceta is ratified, it is likely the UK will still be part of the EU."
Darrell Pasloski, premier of the Yukon territory in Canada's north, has already called for a trade mission to the UK led by provincial premiers, and UK trade secretary Liam Fox told the Sunday Times he had opened trade talks with Canada's international trade minister, Chrystia Freeland.
Mr Dion said concerns about the Ceta's investor-state provisions, which allow states to launch proceedings against governments over trade violations, had been placated by amendments that allow states to appoint members of a dispute settlement tribunal.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); CANADA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CA Canada; GB United Kingdom; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               258 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Cheerless mood as business studies impact on investment; BREXIT; Barometer: Growth outlook

BYLINE: Chris Giles, Gemma Tetlow and Emily Cadman

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Since the Brexit vote, UK companies have maintained an attitude of business as usual, not least because few had contingency plans in the event of a Leave vote. Over the next year, however, a third of businesses expect Brexit to have a negative effect on investment and hiring plans, as the mood darkens.
The Bank of England's agents, stationed in all of the UK's regions, monitor investment intentions in manufacturing and services. June's figures show manufacturing investment intentions at the same level in June as in May, at 0.4 - close to the series average.
In services, the score of 1.2 in May was within a tenth of the long-term average and fell only fractionally - to 1.1 - in June.
But intelligence since the vote suggests that a third of the bank's contacts expect Brexit to have a negative impact on their investment plans over the next 12 months, even if not immediately.
Signal for growth: Poor
Reason to be cautious: Avery good indicator of the 2008 recession; not so good at spotting the 2013 recovery.
How businesses feel about the outlook is an indicator of how likely they are to hire and invest. The signs from the manufacturing sector and large companies are not good.
Deloitte reports that confidence has tumbled since the vote, with most finance chiefs surveyed expecting to reduce hiring and investment in the next 12 months.
EEF reports similar pessimism among manufacturers, but most are not reporting any immediate decrease in volumes and instead are expecting the impact to be felt over the next six months. The manufacturers' association forecasts the sector will remain in recession at least until the end of 2017.
Signal for growth: Worrying
Reason to be cautious: Reviewing plans is not the same as cancelling them. Both surveys were conducted before the new government was formed, when uncertainty was high.
Economic slowdowns are associated with a contraction in the housing market as people hold back on big decisions. New buyer inquiries declined after the referendum, according to a survey by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. A majority of agents believe house prices will fall in the next three months.
Signal for growth: Poor
Reason to be cautious: This market can quickly change. More data are needed to establish a trend.
Consumer confidence
This is usually correlated with the ups and downs of the economy. Ipsos Mori reports that optimism has fallen to its lowest since January 2012, with 57 per cent thinking the UK's economic condition will worsen over the next 12 months, up from 29 per cent last month.
Many of the groups seeing the biggest increases in pessimism were those who were more likely to have voted Remain: young people, mortgage holders and private renters, social grades AB, those in London and Scotland.
Signal for growth: Poor
Reason to be cautious: This reflects expectations only - the impact depends on how people respond.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               259 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 8:45 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Daily Mail ad revenue shows signs of recovery in second quarter; Slowing of print advertising decline - with significant improvement since Brexit vote - prompts hopes that downturn is ending

BYLINE: Mark Sweney

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 211 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Daily Mail's print advertising fell by 11% year on year in the three months to the end of June, a significant improvement over the 15% decline in the first quarter.
Print advertising revenue recovered even more strongly in the three weeks after 26 June following the UK's vote for Brexit - a possible signal that the worst of the ad downturn is over.
The decline in print ad revenue across its whole portfolio, including daily freesheet Metro, was 10% year on year in the three months to 26 June.
Even more encouraging is a snapshot that shows that in the three weeks since 26 June print advertising declined by just 8%.
The figures will be welcomed by investors who sent parent company DMGT's shares tumbling 9% when the company issued a profits warning after revealing poor first-quarter results at its media operation.
Rival national newspaper publishers also battered by the precipitous fall in print advertising will also take heart at the strengthening fortunes of the Mail titles.
Mail Online boosted its ad revenues by 18% in the three months to 26 June, and 19% in the three-week period since then.
Gareth Davies, an analyst at Numis, described the performance as "solid" and the improvement in the three-week snapshot since June as "particularly encouraging".


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               260 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 3:55 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: EasyJet counts cost of nervous passengers, weak pound and strikes; Budget airline market facing crisis after terror attacks, political volatility and Brexit scare off flyers, and sterling's fall increases fuel costs

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 622 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:                      EasyJet has said it is facing one of the most difficult periods in memory as multiple terrorist attacks, industrial action and uncertainty following the Brexit vote blight the airline sector.
The budget airline said weak consumer confidence and an unusually high level of disruption to flights was making it difficult to predict how the business would fare in the coming months. 
EasyJet was the biggest faller on the FTSE 100 on morning trading, down 6% at one point.
Carolyn McCall, the chief executive, said events affecting the industry were developing on a daily basis, citing Turkey's decision on Wednesday to declare a state of emergency, following a failed coup attempt. 
"There are so many moving parts. There are more terrorist events than in any years anyone can remember, air traffic control action, and the devaluation of the pound on top of that. All of that has an impact on consumer confidence. It is one of the most difficult environments we have seen in a very long time."
McCall said consumers' willingness to fly tended to diminish rapidly in the immediate aftermath of terrorist events such as the attack in Nice last week. "You see demand fall immediately. It does recover but it can take weeks," she said.
The sharp fall in the pound since the Brexit vote has pushed costs up by £40m, according to McCall, largely because fuel is priced in the stronger US dollar.
 Related:  Higher travel costs push up UK inflation
She made the comments as easyJet published a trading update for the third quarter. The airline said cancellations have been much higher than usual because of a combination of strike action, poor weather, runway closures at Gatwick and air traffic congestion. A total of 1,221 flights were cancelled over the period, a 70% increase on the same period a year earlier.
Revenue over the quarter fell by 2.6% to £1.2bn, partly because of the high number of cancellations and increased competition on short haul routes. Revenue per seat fell by 7.7% to £54.54. The number of passengers carried on easyJet flights increased by 5.8% to 20.2 million.
McCall said the outlook remained uncertain: "The economic and operating environment remains uncertain, following the high levels of disruption and more recently the UK's referendum decision to leave the EU, as well as the recent events in Turkey and Nice, which have affected consumer confidence.
"This combined with industry capacity growth in short haul continues to have an impact on industry yields at a peak time of year." 
EasyJet said it had a team in place to hold talks with regulators and governments to secure European flying rights following Britain's decision to leave the EU.
The airline added it had "a well-developed" contingency plan to obtain an EU airline operator certificate. McCall stressed this would only be pursued "out of necessity, not choice", should the UK government fail to secure an agreement that ensured the continuation of a liberalised and deregulated aviation market. 
"EasyJet remains committed to the UK, its largest single market," the company said. The airline has secured 65% of expected bookings for the fourth quarter, with average revenue per seat for the quarter down by around 7.5%.
"As a result of events in the last week the revenue per seat trajectory in the fourth quarter remains uncertain," it cautioned.
The German airline Lufthansa cut its full-year profit target on Wednesday, saying advanced bookings on long-haul routes to Europe had fallen sharply "due to repeated terrorist attacks in Europe and to greater political and economic uncertainty".
The company said it expected full-year underlying earnings to fall in 2016, having previously expected them to come in just above the previous year.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (51%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               261 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Eurotunnel cuts Brexit outlook; Briefs ; TRANSPORT

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS WEEK;NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ANGLO-FRENCH subsea rail link operator Groupe Eurotunnel lowered its 2016 and 2017 guidance for core profit as a result of the post-Brexit drop in the pound.
Eurotunnel, which carries Eurostar high-speed trains between Paris, Brussels and London, lost as much as a third of its value in the immediate aftermath of the referendum vote despite offering reassurances that it would not suffer.
Eurotunnel made two-thirds of its (EURO)1.22bn in revenue last year from the shuttle services, with Britons making up 80pc of car passengers.
The company said yesterday that it was lowering its forecast for 2016 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), excluding MYFERRYLINK, by about 4.5pc to (EURO)535m and its 2017 EBITDA outlook, excluding MYFERRYLINK, by about 4.3pc to (EURO)579m.
Eurotunnel, which also shuttles trains containing passenger cars, coaches and freight trucks, said the impact of Brexit on cross-Channel transport was uncertain, but it added that it did not expect any significant impact on its activities in the short term.
"Despite the financial market uncertainty generated by the United Kingdom voting to leave the European Union, the group remains confident in the performance of its economic model and in its outlook," chief executive Jacques Gounon said.
The first half of 2016 saw a three percent decrease in Eurostar passenger traffic due to attacks in Brussels in March and rail strikes in Belgium and France, the company said.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); BELGIUM (90%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               262 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Fleet decline Whitby's hopes ebb as infrastructure crumbles; BREXIT

BYLINE: Andrew Bounds, North of England correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A fortnight ago, hundreds of tourists lined the historic quay at Whitby as a giant crane lowered the latest addition to the UK's fishing fleet into the water. But the trawler, built by local yard Parkol , was heading north to Shetland: there is now little demand for large craft in the birthplace of Captain James Cook.
Just one trawler is based in the Yorkshire port, down from about 25 in the 1990s.
Other skippers have moved to Scotland as local infrastructure has begun to crumble, a situation familiar along England's east coast.
Even if the industry revives after the UK leaves the EU, it could be too late for a town with a proud fishing history.
After 40 years at sea, Howard Locker sold his trawler Whitby Rose because the running costs were too high. He and his son Craig have joined the hundreds who stay close to shore catching shellfish.
A handful of others take tourists on sea angling trips.
The restrictions of Brussels , with its quotas and limits to days at sea, do not extend to the 12-mile coastal fishing zone .
"First I went to sea with one hand behind my back. Then it was both hands. The European Union has been a disaster for fishing," said Mr Locker as he stood on the town's fish quay.
There were no white fish buyers left in Whitby, and charges to land fish were high, he said, so boats went to Scarborough or South Shields.
The fish themselves have moved north as the climate has changed.
Lobsters and crabs can provide an alternative living - but even they have been scarce this year so far. Cold weather has meant the crustaceans have not grown their hard shells and spent long hours in hiding, conserving their energy.
"You could put gold bars in those pots and they wouldn't come out," said Mr Locker.
Craig, his son, would love to head back into the far North Sea - but he wants to stay in Whitby. "The fish quay is just a pigeon-loft now," he said, lacking facilities and with buildings crumbling.
Whitby does have plenty of fish for sale - 15 chip shops in a one-mile radius. But they serve Icelandic cod and Norwegian haddock brought in by lorry.
Adrian Fusco's family owns three restaurants in the town and one in Robin Hood's Bay, and has invested £2m in recent years. He said that he stopped using British-caught fish four years ago because they did not have Marine Stewardship Council certification. That guarantees fish are caught in a sustainable way.
But a Scottish fishery has regained the MSC mark, and Mr Fusco dreams of returning to local fish at Quayside, his flagship restaurant, opposite the fish quay. "I would love to serve fish landed in Whitby, just across the street," he said.
But there are more immediate problems.
The harbour walls are being eroded by the sea. An engineers' report in 2002, updated in 2009, found that they were likely to collapse any time. It called for "major capital investment" to prevent that.
The Environment Agency has offered £4.8m, but Scarborough council, which owns the harbour, must provide the other £3.7m.
"If the piers collapse, Whitby collapses," said John Freeman, an artist and former town mayor. He claims that an annual surplus of around £1m a year from the harbour is not being reinvested.
A Fight4Whitby campaign group is raising money for a legal challenge.
Scarborough borough council did not respond to requests for comment.
Jim Morrison, managing director of Parkol Marine, the boatbuilder, has had to spend company money to shore up its quayside.
"It has not been maintained for years. We had to do it to keep our business going. You have got to keep investing in the infrastructure."
The yard, which employs 50, is still busy, making two boats a year, mainly for Scotland.
Mr Morrison said: "Fishing has changed. The days when you could get a good living a few miles off the pier at Whitby have gone."


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); ICELAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); ENGLAND (79%); BELGIUM (76%); EUROPE (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               263 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Give Kenny 'space' for Breenny Brexit talks - MEP

BYLINE: Niall O'Connor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 426 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: TAOISEACH Enda Kenny needs to be given the "space" to effectively negotiate a post-Brexit deal for Ireland, according to a Fine Gael MEP. Mairead McGuinness told the MacGill Summer School that there was a time when Mr Kenny was under pressure to take up a post in the European Council - but instead opted to prioritise Irish interests.
The Midlands-North-West MEP said Mr Kenny is well respected and well placed to negotiate on behalf of Ireland and that he needs to be given the "space" to do so.
"People will know there was a time when they wanted An Taoiseach to be in the council and do European work. And there was an extraordinary respect at the time when he said 'No I will stay in Ireland and I will try very hard to fix what is broken and to take up that challenge'," Ms McGuinness said.
"Now is the time for the Taoiseach to be given the space to deal with this European issue that has all-Ireland implications," she added.
The remark may be seen as a warning to other Fine Gael politicians who have put pressure on Mr Kenny to spell out his departure plan.
During the same debate, SDLP leader Colum Eastwood said Irish reunification is the "biggest and best idea around" and must now be considered in light of Brexit.
Mr Eastwood described the fact that a Border poll is now firmly on the political agenda as a "natural and welcome development".
And he said that "political life can no longer afford to presume the permanence of anything" after British voters opted to leave the EU.
"The SDLP, as a party, continues to believe that the reunification of Ireland is the biggest and the best idea around," Mr Eastwood said.
"However, if the Brexit result and the demise of David Cameron has also taught us, it is that we should make sure to fight referenda that we are confident of winning.
"Scottish independence campaigners produced a 670-page document outlining the path to independent nationhood and how it would operate.
"It was credible and detailed. Irish nationalism now needs to start on its page one," he added.
Mr Eastwood's remarks firmly put his party in the opposite corner to the DUP.
Separately yesterday, the President of the Irish Farmers' Association (IFA), Joe Healy, warned that the viability of family farms has been put at risk as a result of the decision by Britain to leave the European Union.
Mr Healy told of an immediate tightening of cash-flow since the Brexit vote last month.
"IFA is demanding immediate action by Government, banks, suppliers and processors to support farmers through this crisis and alleviate farm income pressures."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               264 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: HKEx; Brexit hitch

BYLINE: Henry Sanderson

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 135 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Charles Li , chief executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, which owns the London Metal Exchange, has halted plans to link the London and Hong Kong commodities markets.
"With Britain withdrawing from the EU, there is some uncertainty about the policy developments in the UK," he said. "Therefore, we will wait and monitor the development of the UK and Europe's regulatory policy."
The plan had been to clear and settle LME trades in Hong Kong, more closely linking the metals exchange with China. HKEx bought the LME in 2012 for £1.4bn.
Li said he didn't expect Brexit to have an impact on other initiatives, such as setting up LME-certified mainland warehouses and a Chinese physical commodities exchange next year.
"We are confident the impact [of Brexit] on the LME will be limited," he said. Henry Sanderson


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); HK Hong Kong; XO Asia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               265 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hollande to meet Kenny and Higgins in Dublin today for talks on security; Brexit, the Rising and Irish in France during first World War also on agenda

BYLINE: Lara Marlowe

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 808 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: French president François Hollande is to visit Taoiseach Enda Kenny and President Michael D Higgins in Dublin today, one week after a Tunisian lorry driver killed 84 people in Nice.
The meetings will focus on security, and on Europe after Brexit.
The invitation was extended by Mr Kenny during his September 2015 visit to Paris and Lyon. In the last year of Mr Hollande's term of office, they wanted to mark the centenary of the Rising and the sacrifice of Irish lives in France during the first World War.
Those events now take second place to the slaughter in Nice, but may be mentioned at a press conference, or in Mr Hollande's speech to the French community at Dublin Castle.
Mr Hollande shares Mr Kenny's belief in liberal economic policies, but has encountered great difficulty putting them into practice in France. A controversial reform of the labour law was definitively passed by decree yesterday, after months of unrest.
Mr Hollande shares Mr Higgins's commitment to fighting global warming, as well as his fascination with history.
As the two closest neighbours of the UK, French and Irish leaders wanted to consult each other before Brexit negotiations started. The Elysee has shown sensitivity to Irish concerns regarding Northern Ireland, the free travel area and economic ties.
British prime minister Theresa May will travel to Paris for a working dinner with Mr Hollande this evening, after his return from Dublin.
Paris has shown more impatience than Dublin for Britain to invoke article 50, notifying the EU of its departure.  Both governments want the closest possible relations between the EU and UK, but France is moving towards presidential and legislative elections and Mr Hollande fears that uncertainty about Brexit will complicate the situation.
Relaunching Europe
 "The sooner the prime minister, Mrs May, begins the procedure for the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, the better future relations between Europe and the UK, and the better our own situation," Mr Hollande said in his televised interview on Bastille Day.  
Mr Hollande promised to make proposals to "relaunch" Europe following the Brexit vote, and has asked French prime minister Manuel Valls to come up with proposals.
Mr Hollande told the military on July 13th that, as a nuclear power and Nato member with a permanent seat on the UN Security Council, France "must draw conclusions from her position and call for a European defence initiative".
Following the jihadist attacks that killed 130 people in Paris last November 13th, France appealed to European partners for support under article 42.7 of the Treaty of European Union.
Despite official neutrality, Ireland participates on a practical level in the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) and in the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP).  
In response to the French request, Ireland increased the number of military trainers in Mali, who will number close to 20 by the end of this year. French officials also appreciate Irish participation in Unifil, southern Lebanon, where Irish soldiers will increase from 200 to 350.
Ireland sent the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Charlie Flanagan, to Paris last month, to demonstrate support for French efforts to restart an Israeli-Palestinian peace process.
Though he is at a disadvantage within the "Franco-German engine" of Europe, Mr Hollande's "major contribution" through the economic crisis "was to keep insisting on moving into the phase of investment, moving away from austerity and rules-based obligations, towards promoting job creation and growth," a diplomat said.
In recent speeches, the French president emphasised the need for unity within France and the EU, and the need for both the French government and the EU to provide protection for their citizens.
In his Bastille Day interview, Mr Hollande surprised observers by reverting to earlier proposals to create a two-speed Europe and to strengthen the euro zone by giving it a parliament and finance minister. 
Anathema 
But the idea of further integration has become anathema to officials in much of the EU.  France now appears to embrace more modest ambitions, closer to Irish aspirations.  
"Vision isn't necessarily what people who are tempted to vote for [extreme right-wing Front National leader] Marine Le Pen will understand," says a diplomat. "They will understand if borders are secure, if there is energy security, if their 25-year-old has a training programme that eventually gets them a job."
The announcement today that the French electricity transmission system operator, Réseau de Transport d'Électricité Français, and EirGrid will move to the second phase of plans for the first undersea electrical cable linking Ireland to the continent is intended to demonstrate the concrete benefits of EU membership. 
Until now, Ireland imported 90 per cent of energy needs from the UK.  


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); LYON, FRANCE (79%); FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); MALI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               266 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 7:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'I've learnt to be compassionate and diplomatic': what it's like to be a vicar's kid; Theresa May and Angela Merkel met on Wednesday to discuss Brexit; both are the daughters of religious ministers. We asked readers what it's like to have a clergy connection

BYLINE: Rachel Obordo and Guardian readers

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1567 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:                    'Growing up in the goldfish bowl that is a vicarage has had many benefits'                    
I realised my family were 'different' when, at the age of four, I was genuinely scared my dad would donate my teddy bear to the Sunday school of the church he was helping to build. After that came three years of my father completing theological college, and then, the many years of embarrassment as he arrived to do our school assemblies (sometimes in a cassock, which led to predictable comments). 
Now though, I'm really proud of being a vicar's kid. I have always been surrounded by people of every age and background. My brother and I have learnt how to handle answering the phone to strangers in tears, and these experiences have made training as a doctor that little bit easier. Growing up in the goldfish bowl that is a vicarage has had many benefits, as its a two-way street; when our lives have been turned upside down (I have lost two brothers in the last 7 years), there has been a huge community around us providing support and more casseroles than we could eat!
Both my brother and I have been heavily involved in politics - when you're surrounded by social inequality and a father who delivers sermons as a career, it's perhaps predictable. Many assumptions have been made about my family and I as a result of my father's job. Most of them are wrong but some are hilarious. I convinced one boyfriend that we started each day with bible study at 7.30 am. He was sat alone waiting in the dining room for a long time! 
I am hugely proud of my dad (and his long-suffering wife, who is even more of a saint for putting up with him). Rarely does the outside world see the 24/7 job that being a member of the clergy really is like, or the amount of emotional baggage he has to bring home. There is no gap between work and home - though I did make my dad wear a tie for my graduation last week instead of a dog collar! 
                     Hannah Barham-Brown, 28, a doctor in London                   
                   'People seem surprised to hear I enjoy studying Islam'                    
As the child of not one, but two vicars (my mum and step dad) I've spent my life in churches, meetings, church fête, church dos, visits, community days, and countless other events where the vicars' children often made up most of the child population. I've always enjoyed telling people I meet that both my parents are vicars and hearing the "Oh... What's that like?" or the usual "I thought priests couldn't get married". 
My life has never been boring. I've had opportunities that I wouldn't have had if it weren't for my parents' professions and my world view has been largely shaped by my lucky childhood as the vicars' kid. The hardest part of being the vicars' child is people not realising that your parents don't just work on Sundays. Being a rector as my step dad was for the last nine years, or a vicar as my mum is now, is a seven-day-a-week job.
 There have been times when my step dad would be in meetings and my mum would be at uni getting her degree when my brother and I would be left to our own devices because other people needed our parents. But for all the times we were alone there are the times when all of us were home and enjoying being together. I was expected to excel at religious studies (which luckily I did) but people are always shocked when I tell them I enjoy studying Islam as if I'm betraying my Christian parents! In fact, my parents have taken me around the world and educated me about far more than just our own faith. 
I'm lucky enough to have been brought up by two brilliant and intelligent parents who just happen to be vicars and have never shied away from my questions. As a theology student people presume I'm going to be like them. I'm not! I have no desire to be a vicar but theology is an enormous part of my life. 
                     Emily, 21, a student in Winchester                    
                   'My dad's one of the cool ones: a cinephile and lifelong fan of the Glasgow Rangers'                    
My dad's a minister in the Church of Scotland. A perpetually youthful and energetic man, I was lucky in that he's definitely one of the cooler ones. Aside from the devotion to his faith and the communities he's served, he's a cinephile, lifelong fan of the Glasgow Rangers and the occasional trendsetter, known throughout the ecumenical landscape as the Reverend Versace. Pollock's greatest export, indeed.
As such, growing up as one of his wee men was fine. His job did mean my brothers and I were expected to actively participate in church life but that was just an hour a week and it was quite fun. We were privileged in that it allowed us to interact with folk from all walks of life from a very early age, fostering a world view that's very much rooted in helping others. 
 I had the occasional teacher using dad's profession as a means to leverage a point ("I expected more from you being the son of... yadda yadda yadda"), but I've generally found folk are genuinely interested and keen to understand what makes him tick. I've occasionally had people tiptoe around certain topics, but I'm always clear that I'm my own man. Dad and mum encouraged us to seek out the truth. I'm glad this search was rooted in their own. 
                     Mark Buchanan, 32, London                   
                   'It was quite normal to come back from church to find a broken window'                    
My dad moved to a small town just outside Sunderland called Houghton-Le-Spring to be the local vicar when I was 10. It made for an interesting upbringing. I was happy but was very conscious of being different. I remember trying very hard to fit in with local kids, adopting the accent in a few weeks and trying not to be too much of a swot at school. I used to get my hair cut in unusual ways and I started drinking when I was quite young (14) which was probably a way to test my parents to see if they were the conservative squares my class mates thought they were. They were always very relaxed!
My dad's family have been priests since at least the 18th century. My granddad ran the chapel at Windsor Castle and my great grand-uncle was Archbishop of Canterbury. One of the interesting things about being in a church family is that you can be quite close to extreme poshness (the royal family! My grandparents are buried next to Edward IV if I'm not mistaken) and extreme poverty (we used to feed tramps with tea and toast when they knocked at the door). 
Our home used to get broken into all the time as thieves knew when we were at church services. It was quite normal to come back from church to find a window broken and a microwave nicked. In the long run I think I had a happy childhood and a good moral upbringing. I am a left-wing liberal Christian which is probably what you would expect of someone brought up in a Christian house during the miners' strike.
 If there was anything lacking then I think my mum and dad (my mum taught theology students how to read the bible in Cyriac and Aramaic so she also had an unusual working life) didn't really prepare me for working in the commercial world and for making financial decisions. It's no surprise really as they didn't work for companies or businesses and they didn't have to commit to buying a family home. 
                     David Fisher, 43, Leamington Spa                   
                   'My dad's taught me to be compassionate and diplomatic'                    
Growing up with a dad in the ministry always seemed difficult. We used to move every two or three years and it was difficult having to make friends all over again. But when I look back at it, I got to travel all over the UK and got to live in some fantastic houses which I never would have otherwise. Yes I had to make friends a lot, but that made the friends I did make more important to me. 
Above all else, growing up with a vicar as a dad, or at least growing up with my dad who was a vicar I learnt to be compassionate and diplomatic. Being a vicar is never just about helping people but also a balancing act when it comes to dealing with strong personalities. 
                     Chris, 35, London                    
                   'I used to wear my bikini under my choir robes because it was too hot'                    
Growing up in our Cheshire village parish, the thing I remember most was having to constantly remember that I was the vicar's daughter before I did anything. 
The phrase "But you can't do that, what would the parishioners think!" dogged me throughout my childhood. Examples of the things I used to do which caused this phrase to be used include wandering round the village in bare feet, wearing my bikini under my choir robes for morning service because it was too hot. I also used to line up paper cups on the churchyard wall so I could practice shooting my air rifle. 
My experience reminds me to think of others' opinions before I do things. It has made me more careful and more aware of public opinion. I have talked to many other vicar's children who feel and think the same way as I do. People don't tend to think about the vicar's kids. We're sort of secondary and it can be difficult. It must be equally hard for the children of other prominent figures in village life such as the GP, dentist or teacher. 
                     Poppy Hasted, 55, London                    


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               267 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 6:45 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Looking on the bright side of Brexit

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: David Evans' sister ( Letters, 21 July) needs to see something a bit more positive about Brexit in your newspaper, and as a remainer I have been compelled to find something to cheer myself up with. Maybe it's not all gloomy. The poorer countries of Europe not only want there to be jobs in our country for their workers, they need our financial help as well, and our economy, comparatively speaking, is strong. Greece will need more money from somewhere, and Italy is soon likely be a mendicant. Germany understandably has said that it is not prepared to do all the financial heavy lifting. There are several European countries willing to woo us too for our assistance.
In global affairs, we are a strong member of Nato and have an important role in the UN as a member of the security council. Historically, we have world experience in trade, politics and defence, and our Queen is head of the Commonwealth. An ever more English-speaking world is something beneficial to us. Regardless of Trump, our special relationship with the US is real. These are considerable assets with which David Davis and his team can bargain in their EU negotiations and with the world at large. When Boris Johnson decides, and let it be soon, that the foreign secretary is not going to be him, I am sure they will be able to get on with this work patiently and steadfastly. Richard WilsonOxford
· Yet another seven, possibly eight, letters from people whingeing about the Brexit vote ( 21 July ). On the other hand, headlines of: " Merkel backs May's decision not to trigger Brexit until next year - German leader does not rule out free trade deal with UK " (page 6); " Sheffield gets 'billions' in Chinese investment - Sixty-year construction deal with Sichuan firm - £220m tranche earmarked to to transform city centre" (page 12); " Positive data from Bank is good news for May "; " Benign beginning for Brexit "; " Unilever cuts $1bn deal for shaving club in bid to take on Gillette " (all page 25); " Cadbury's wants its biscuits back " (page 27). More positive contributions, please. Brian Harrison-JenningsHuddersfield, West Yorkshire
· Since there's been no economic catastrophe or political cataclysm following the majority decision to leave the EU, it is right to celebrate the restoration of British constitutional sovereignty and legal autonomy. Instead of dwelling on doom-laden narratives, peddled bythe IMF , World Bank, the EU, the US and other vested elites, the British public should embrace Brexit. Not only will a post-EU Britain regain its global independence, but it can also foster greater international stability. In a world where the US, Russia, China and the EU are currently major players, a post-Brexit UK can evolve into an effective power bloc with the revival and strengthening of the Commonwealth. By capitalising on historical and cultural links, this new Commonwealth - with its 2 billion population and swiftly emerging markets - can become a viable complement to the declining European single market.
By establishing free trade deals with each of the 53 nations of the Commonwealth, the UK will not only secure its own economic interests, but contribute to progress and development in its former colonies. Upon entering the EU, Britain foolishly downgraded its relations with the Commonwealth. That disastrous shortsighted decision needs to be reversedfor the mutual benefit of both parties. This, surely, is a win-win situation. Dr T HargeyDirector, Muslim Educational Centre of Oxford
                       · Join the debate - email                         guardian.letters@theguardian.com                                        


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SICHUAN, CHINA (75%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (91%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               268 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: M&A momentum maintained despite Brexit, says panel

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 158 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Takeover Panel, which regulates mergers and acquisitions in the City, said that the "momentum in public M&A" continued into this year despite the "dampening effect" of the Brexit vote.
The panel reports that in the year to March 31 there had been some "very sizeable bids, often attended by prolonged multiple antitrust clearance requirements". During the year there were 61 firm takeover offers and 12 of more than £1 billion.
The higher M&A activity has resulted in the panel's income rising to £13.7 million in the period, against £12.1 million a year earlier. The rise was driven by higher document charges, which "reflected the increase in larger takeovers seen in the year".
Costs at the panel have fallen to £11.7 million, from £12.1 million in 2014-15, driven by lower personnel costs. Sir Gordon Langley, the chairman of the panel, said that the impact of Brexit on takeover regulation would depend on the form of exit that the UK negotiates.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (52%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               269 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 9:50 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May gets Hollande ultimatum: free trade depends on free movement; French president lays out 'the most crucial point' in Brexit negotiations as prime minister visits Paris

BYLINE: Rowena Mason in Paris

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 1159 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May was warned by French president François Hollande at their first meeting in Paris that the UK cannot expect access to the single market if it wants to put immigration controls on EU citizens.
At a joint press conference in the Élysée Palace, the French president made it clear that May was facing a choice about whether to accept free movement of people in return for free trade.
 Related:  Theresa May will soon have to decide which Brexit to take | Martin Kettle
Standing alongside the new prime minister, speaking in French with an official translator, he said: "It's the most crucial point. That's the point that will be the subject of the negotiation.
"The UK today has access to the single market because it respects the four freedoms. If it wishes to remain within the single market it is its decision to know how far and how it will have to abide by the four freedoms.
"None can be separated from the other. There cannot be freedom of movement of goods, free movement of capital, free movement of services if there isn't a free movement of people ... It will be a choice facing the UK - remain in the single market and then assume the free movement that goes with it or to have another status."
Hollande's comments suggest it will be difficult for the UK to fulfil the desire of Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, and other prominent Vote Leave figures during the referendum campaign, who favoured access to the single market while imposing limits on immigration.
However, Hollande offered more support over May's decision to wait until next year before triggering article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, which formally kicks off the two-year process of the UK leaving the EU.
Earlier in Dublin, Hollande had demanded an explanation for the delay, saying: "We understood it would be September, then October and then December. Justifications will have to be given."
However, he appeared to soften his language after the bilateral talks with May, saying he "understood the government that has just been formed needs this time".
 Related:  Why Theresa May should beware Angela Merkel's honeyed words | Matt Qvortrup
He added: "But let me repeat, the sooner the better in the common interests of Europe ... because uncertainty is the greatest danger. When economic players doubt the conditions under which the UK will leave and the relationship that will be maintained, there can be risks for stability of the European economy and therefore for jobs."
The two leaders found most consensus on the issue of maintaining the existing Le Touquet agreement that means UK border checks are conducted in Calais in an attempt to control the flow of refugees and migrants across the channel.
During the EU referendum campaign, May, David Cameron and a French government minister all suggested this could be in jeopardy and the border could move to the UK if there was a vote for Brexit; the claims were dismissed as "project fear" by leave campaigners.
On Thursday, May and Hollande said they were completely committed to maintaining the Calais border.
May said: "We have discussed the Le Touquet agreement, and president Hollande and indeed interior minister [Bernard] Cazeneuve have both been very clear from their point of view that they wish the Le Touquet agreement to stay. I want the Le Touquet agreement to stay. 
"I know there are those who are calling for it to go. There are those within France who are calling for it to go ... Le Touquet is of benefit I believe to both the UK and France and we are both very clear Britain now having taken the decision to leave the EU, Le Touquet agreement should stay."
Hollande became the first EU leader to guarantee that British people living in France would be allowed to stay in his country once the UK's exit negotiations concluded.
"There is no doubt that the France people who reside in the UK will be able to continue to work there and that the British people in France will be able to continue to work there and spend as much time as they wish," the French president said.
May has held off making a promise guaranteeing the right to reside in the UK of all EU citizens until she gets pledges from other nations that the rights of Britons will be preserved.
"I expect to be able to do so, and the only situation in which that wouldn't be possible is if British citizens' rights in European member states were not being protected," she said.
May arrived in Paris after visit to Berlin for similar talks with Angela Merkel. The German chancellor struck a sympathetic note about it being right and necessary for Britain to take its time with preparations for triggering article 50. Unlike Hollande, she did not rule out a deal that combines some level of access to the single market with controls on immigration.
In the coming months, May is expected to make her way round more EU leaders as she lays the foundations for negotiations on Brexit, even though Brussels has banned formal and informal talks until article 50 is activated.
Cameron used his final meeting with EU leaders in Brussels earlier this month to warn that the British public would be unwilling to accept any deal that did not include limits on the free movement of people.
But there are concerns among other member states that ceding ground to Britain on the issue of immigration controls - which became a central theme of the referendum campaign - would strengthen the hand of anti-immigrant parties in other countries. Marine Le Pen, the leader of France's far right Front National, was jubilant after the Brexit vote, calling it the most important moment since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
May has handed the tough task of negotiating the details of the EU departure to David Davis, who will run Whitehall's new Brexit ministry, while two more Brexiters, Liam Fox and Johnson, have been put in charge of trade and foreign affairs, both key departments as the practical challenges of negotiating an exit emerge.
Brexit campaigners appeared to suggest during the hard-fought referendum campaign that Britain would be able to maintain tariff-free access to EU markets while also "taking back control" of migration flows, but refused to identify what specific type of relationship they had in mind.
Cameron fought hard for the right to control migration during his renegotiation of Britain's relationship with the rest of the EU last year and won some changes, including the right to gradually phase in benefits for new arrivals from other member-states. But that deal lapsed when the public voted to leave and the rest of the EU is now keen to hear what Britain's demands will be for the article 50 process, which could take up to two years, and which all countries must be willing to sign up to.
May was given a military welcome in Paris for the talks, which lasted around an hour. After the press conference, May and Hollande attended a working dinner where the leaders were served lobster salad, veal with spinach, vanilla mousse with strawberries and cheese.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               270 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: No, Trump and Brexit are not the same; Cleveland Notebook

BYLINE: Sebastian Payne

SECTION: NOTEBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It is an odd feeling witnessing the birth of a new political reality. For Brexit it came in the early hours of June 24, when the broadcasters called Britain's EU referendum for the Leave side. With Trumpism, it was walking into the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, Ohio, to see "Make America Great Again!" plastered across the arena. The message was stark: Donald Trump has taken over the US's Grand Old Party.
Comparisons have been made between the popular uprisings on both sides of the Atlantic - some of them lazy. Boris Johnson, the UK foreign secretary and leading Leave campaigner, and Trump may have shaken up their respective establishments, but blond hair is one of the few things they have in common. Brexit and Trumpism are not one and the same.
There are, however, similarities. The rise of Trump and the victory of Brexit can be partially attributed to the empowerment of the so-called left behinds - those folk who have not benefited from globalisation. Deindustrialisation and a rapidly changing jobs market have made them economically impotent and politically disenfranchised. The message of "taking back control" offers a powerful glimmer of hope.
Immigration has also been a factor on both sides of the pond. Many of those backing Trump are doing so out of a fear of migrants - one disgruntled Republican staffer called Trumpism "a final futile war cry as majoritarian political power slips away from the economically decimated white working class". Brexiters won in part by promising to slash migration levels.
After witnessing the bizarre Republican circus, however, it is apparent that what is happening on the American right is entertainment masquerading as politics. Trump's entrance on Monday evening was apt for a venue that hosts rock concerts: as " We Are the Champions " blasted out, he dramatically emerged out of dry ice with his wife Melania on his arm and told the crowd, "We are going to win so big." The best the Leave campaign could offer was Johnson brandishing a Cornish pasty and a red bus emblazoned with a dodgy statistic.
The characters are not comparable. Speakers at the convention included reality TV stars, models, former Navy Seals, a wrestler and someone who runs Trump's winery. As with any glitzy drama - and the US does it best - there was a moment to tick every emotional box. The delegates roared with joy and wept in sorrow. The cricketer Ian Botham aside , the Brexit campaign was dominated by politicians with democratic mandates.
This battle for the White House will centre on personalities. Conservatives in Cleveland loathe Trump's Democrat rival Hillary Clinton and many are siding with him just because he is the alternative. Inside the convention, the most popular chant has been "Hillary for prison". Brexit, though, focused on a simple idea: quitting a political project. Imagine if the UK referendum had been a fight between the personal qualities of David Cameron, former British prime minister, and Nigel Farage, until recently the leader of the UK Independence party - who would have triumphed?
Exceptionalism also divides the two nations. Key to Trump's message is the notion that the US is supreme. An easy roar of approval was elicited by yelling "America is the greatest country on earth". His supporters want to see the US become number one again and empty slogans are enough. After all, showbiz is all about the headlines. Despite some of the nostalgia of the Brexit camp, most Eurosceptic Brits acknowledge that the days of empire are well behind us.
Despite the farcical events in Cleveland, it is hard not to feel sorry for American conservatives. The Republican party has an illustrious history; Trump is slaughtering it every day. His inability to host a proper convention raises questions of how suited he is for the highest office. "It used to be controlled chaos, now it is just chaos," one Republican adviser muttered in disappointment.
Trump's relationship with his party can best be described through the face-sucking creature in the film Alien . He has attached himself to the GOP, his grip will not yield and there is a whiff of acidity in the air. Both sides will inevitably suffer. The only question is, which will expire first: Trump or the Republican party?
sebastian.payne@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GB United Kingdom; US United States of America; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               271 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Positivity to stay whether Brexit is a relief or disaster

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Colin Fisher (" Leavers are right to think that no one understands ", Letters, July 9) pours scorn on Remain supporters in the EU referendum whose reaction to the result has been "an outraged bleat".
Though equally dismayed, I have decided - like him - to take an optimistic stance. Accordingly, if the severance process and outcome are unexpectedly successful I shall be delighted, as the future for our two sons (both in their early thirties) will be brighter than it seems now.
And if Brexit turns out to be an unmitigated disaster, I shall be doubly delighted, as it is always nice to be proved right.
How's that for positive thinking?
John Boothman St Lawrence, Jersey, UK


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               272 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ramifications of Brexit alarm research community

BYLINE: Dick Ahlstrom

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 794 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The issue of Brexit has fallen out of the news over the past few weeks, pushed aside by the horrors of Nice, political upheaval in Turkey and multiple shootings in the US. 
But Brexit as a news item once the votes were cast was always going to be a slow-burner and one that would have to stew for a while before we could understand how such a monumental change was going to impact people.
Some groups already know, however, that Britain has been sold a pup by the "Leave the EU" camp and are already taking action to try and minimise the damage. 
This is no small time, self-serving interest group - it involves no less than the seven national scholarly academies based in these islands. 
The Royal Irish Academy, the Academy of Medical Sciences, the British Academy, the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Learned Society of Wales decided to join together to issue a joint statement urging the UK government to do all it can to protect against a decline in world leading research and innovation as a result of the EU referendum. 
The statement expresses concerns about the UK situation so one might wonder why the Royal Irish Academy became involved. It recognises the hazards apparent in the Brexit vote and as a learned academy it represents the whole of the island including Northern Ireland, a place where a majority of people voted to remain within the EU. 
So the statement was agreed two weeks ago after a meeting involving all seven academies, including our own. 
The scientific aspirations of the UK and Ireland could hardly be more closely aligned in any case and so concerns expressed by British scientists would be mirrored by their Irish counterparts. 
Corrosive effect 
Involvement in research and development was central to the economic, social and cultural wellbeing of these islands, but the uncertainty created by Brexit is having a corrosive effect, the statement suggests.  
It goes on to describe this across a number of areas including people, collaboration, resources etc and the statistics it presents to prove its point are revealing, even if only to understand how integrated are the research connections linking the UK to the wider EU research community.
Some 15 per cent of all academic staff at UK universities are from other EU countries, it says. No less than 60 per cent of the UK's internationally co-authored research papers are with EU partners. 
And despite the claims from the Leave camp about the outflow of sterling into the EU's coffers, Britain was a net beneficiary from EU research programmes. The UK received EUR 6.9 billion from the previous EU science budget - Framework Programme 7 - that ran over the seven years to 2013. 
Ireland's interests
 Do any of these concerns bother us here in the EU? You bet they do.  
A large fraction of the non-UK academics are Irish and we regularly lead and take part in EU-funded research when partnered with UK scientists. It would definitely not be in Ireland's interests to see a situation where the EU decided to cut off Britain and cease supporting research or see a curtailment of student placements via the Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions. 
So much would be lost and Britain is no lightweight in terms of research so the EU would also lose. 
The statement also references the many EU research programmes that draw companies into partnership with academics. Forging industrial/academic links is a key theme running through the current EU research budget, Horizon 2020 and also our own science policy document, Innovation 2020. Irish collaboration with UK companies and academics has always been made easier given a shared language and similar cultures. It would not serve Ireland to be disconnected from what is a geographical local market.
So Brexit could spell no end of trouble and nuisance to the research community here, hence the Royal Irish Academy's concerns as shared by its fellow academies in England, Scotland and Wales. The academies call for a number of things including assurances that talented non-UK EU nationals can continue to work in Britain and likewise UK scientists and students placed in other EU countries have certainty about their futures. The academies want the "closest achievable association" with the EU research programmes. 
This is where the Government must do its job. It should already be making a nuisance of itself lobbying for what is in our best interests. We do this successfully in agriculture, on environmental issues such as carbon release and in other spheres so this should be no different. It is early days since the vote but we should already be looking to protect the relationship we have with academic and industrial research partners in the UK and the EU money that supports these connections.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); TURKEY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); WALES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               273 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 1:26 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Republican divide: Cruz snubs Trump as Pence calls for unity; Trump accuser breaks silence; Turkish president declares three-month state of emergency; UK prime minister signals slow Brexit; Michelle Obama sings

BYLINE: Edward Helmore

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 1175 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:                    Ted Cruz refuses to endorse Trump                    
Vice-presidential pick Mike Pence was warmly received during another chaotic night at the Republican national convention in Cleveland. But his debut was undermined by boos that greeted Texas senator Ted Cruz who  refused to endorse Donald Trump in a speech, revealing the enduring cracks in Republican party unity. "Please, don't stay home in November," Cruz said. "Stand, and speak, and vote your conscience, vote for candidates up and down the ticket who you trust to defend our freedom and to be faithful to the constitution." But Cruz was met with resounding boos after he withheld his endorsement, leaving the value of his display of party disunity uncertain.
                     Mike Pence bid for Republican unity marred by clashes on convention floor                   
Meanwhile, in another break with traditional presidential policy positioning, Trump has suggested the US would not necessarily help a Nato ally under attack. Trump said he would first consider how much they have contributed to the alliance. 
                     Trump says US may not automatically defend Nato allies under attack                   
                   Trump's sexual assault accuser breaks silence                   
Jill Harth, the woman at the center of sexual assault allegations against Donald Trump in the 1990s, has spoken for the first time in detail about her personal experience with the billionaire tycoon. For two decades, Harth, a makeup artist, stayed quiet about the way Trump pursued her, and - according to a lawsuit she instigated - cornered her and groped her in his daughter's bedroom. Harth decided to speak out about her experience with Trump because she wants an apology.
                      Jill Harth, woman who sued Trump over alleged sexual assault, breaks silence                   
                   UN must do more to fight causes of extremism, says frontrunner for top job                   
The United Nations must do a better job of combating the root causes of violent extremism and global insecurity, Helen Clark, one of the frontrunners to succeed Ban Ki-moon as UN secretary general, said in an interview with the Guardian. Clark, the former prime minister of New Zealand, is one of 12 contenders to succeed the incumbent secretary general. She said the UN's archaic bureaucratic structure was proving a hindrance. "The UN is seen to be not doing so well on the peace and security front," she said. 
                     UN must do more to fight causes of extremism, says frontrunner for top job                   
                   Erdogan declares three-month state of emergency                   
Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan has declared a three-month state of emergency across the country, less than a week after a coup threatened to topple his government. The decision, announced in a televised press conference, gives the president the power to issue decrees that have the force of law on matters relating to the state of emergency. The announcement raises further concerns about restrictions on freedoms and rights in Turkey. 
                     Turkey coup attempt: Erdogan declares three-month state of emergency                   
                   Tech investor Peter Thiel on Trump                   
Tonight at the Republican convention shindig, tech investor Peter Thiel will address an enduring conundrum: how to square the natural libertarianism of Silicon Valley with staunch conservatism. Thiel shares Trump's antipathy to the "politically correct" rhetoric of diversity and multiculturalism, as well as to affirmative action, writes Ben Tarnoff. Yet Trump "gives Thiel something far more valuable: a way to fulfill his long-held ambition of saving capitalism from democracy".
                     Donald Trump, Peter Thiel and the death of democracy                   
                   Michelle Obama hits the road in Carpool Karaoke                   
The US first lady made her highly anticipated debut on James Corden's Carpool Karaoke. The pair sang the Stevie Wonder hit Signed, Sealed, Delivered as well as Beyoncé's girl-power anthem Single Ladies. "We just dropped the mic, we were making honey in the beehive, we were making honey to put in our lemonade," Obama joked from the passenger seat of Corden's car. During a  tour of the White House, the pair were also joined by the rapper Missy Elliott for a rendition of This is For My Girls and later Elliott's hit Get Ur Freak On.
                     First lady to Single Ladies: Michelle Obama sings Beyoncé with James Corden                   
                   Brexit 'impossible' to achieve                    
As new UK prime minister Theresa May signals her plan to go slow on Brexit, Philip Oltermann uncovers what may prove to be the strongest argument for the UK remaining in the European Union: after 40 years on integration, Brexit may be economically impossible for Britain. A recent German study found that 58% of German business and political leaders surveyed said they believed an exit from the EU would do "massive damage" to the UK economy. Meanwhile, Frankfurt tempts UK bankers. 
                     Why untangling UK industry from Europe may be 'impossible'                   
                   FBI arrests senior HSBC banker                   
Mark Johnson, HSBC's global head of foreign exchange trading, was arrested by the FBI as he attempted to board a transatlantic flight and charged him with fraudulently rigging a multibillion-dollar currency exchange deal. The bankers are the first people to be charged in connection with the US government's long-running investigation into bankers' alleged rigging of the $5.3tn per day forex market. 
                     FBI arrests senior HSBC banker accused of rigging multibillion-dollar deal                   
                   Hank Williams: tortured soul and... joker                   
As a 15-CD set called The Complete Mother's Best Collection... Plus! featuring 142 lost performances by the country music star is re-issued, Mark Guarino finds a striking contradiction in Williams' image of a doomed and self-destructive country singer known for harrowing fare like I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry, Your Cheatin' Heart, and I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive.
                     Hank Williams: the lighter side of the godfather of country                   
                   In case you missed it ...                   
Pressure is  mounting on Facebook to do more for low-income workers near the company's headquarters in Menlo Park. Sam Levin meets Tameeka Bennett, 29, who had to move away from the Silicon Valley city where she grew up, a consequence of the region's housing crisis exacerbated by the location of the Facebook headquarters. This week, Bennett and other northern California advocates are pressuring Facebook to make substantial investments in affordable housing.
                     Facebook's neighbors are losing their homes. What's being done about it?                   


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               274 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Scots fishermen send warning signal; BREXIT; Industry fears its interests could be bargained away by Westminster to secure rights in larger sectors

BYLINE: Nathalie Thomas

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 616 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For the first time since 1976, Jimmy Buchan is feeling optimistic about the future of his industry.
The skipper from Peterhead, on the north-east coast of Scotland, has been fishing commercially for 40 years and calls Britain's vote to exit the EU "a lifeline". Brexit negotiations are a once-in-a-generation opportunity to be rid of a "hugely complicated" EU quota system, believes Mr Buchan, whose company, Amity, specialises in langoustine.
The EU Common Fisheries Policy, which sets quotas and is designed to conserve fish stocks and manage fleets across Europe, has long been one of the most contentious issues in the bloc. Critics say it is run by bureaucrats who often do not understand fishing while end up having to dump large amounts of their catch. Mr Buchan blames it for damaging Scotland's coastal communities.
"There is a need for a system," he concedes, "and more importantly we need to ensure there is enough [fish] left. The problem is how, over the years, the EU has introduced policies that far away, sitting at a desk, look like a sensible policy. When you try and transfer that to working in an industry, that is a whole different aspect."
The Scottish Fishermen's Federation, which represents an industry that has suffered a 49 per cent decline in employment between 1970 and 2014, said the Brexit result offered "hope and ambition".
Even so, Scotland is relatively fortunate compared with the rest of the UK: almost half of full-time equivalent jobs in the UK fishing fleet in 2014 were on vessels registered north of the border, according to Seafish, the industry body.
But despite getting the referendum result they wanted, Scottish fishing communities are nervous.
Nicola Sturgeon, leader of the Scottish National party and Scotland's first minister, is determined to protect her country's relationship with the EU after 62 per cent of voters north of the border voted to remain in the union.
That stance, the SFF made clear, is one that Scotland's fishing community "does not agree with . . . in the slightest".
Bertie Armstrong, chief executive of the SFF, does not want to get caught in a constitutional row with Holyrood. But as Ms Sturgeon investigates Scotland's options for staying in the EU, he is urging her to take into account the Common Fisheries Policy and the damage he believes it has caused.
"For the fishing industry, whatever emerges, we must be outside the Common Fisheries Policy. The fishing industry would like all options to be examined," he says.
The Scottish fishing industry is also worried it could be used as a pawn by the UK government when it starts divorce negotiations with Europe. Taken as a whole, Britain's fishing industry - whose gross value added was £413m in 2014, according to Seafish - is such a small contributor to overall gross domestic product that fishermen worry their interests could be bargained away to secure rights in bigger sectors, such as financial services.
EU nations for whom access to the sea means access to British waters will want to keep those rights and will fight hard for them, says Mr Armstrong.
"The return of management rights over that sea space is absolutely no small matter. We would not be in the game of turning everyone out or over-fishing, but management would rest properly in the area where international law and common sense says it ought to be."
For fishermen such as Mr Buchan, these are times of mixed emotions. In Brexit, they see a large opportunity to fish in UK waters without inflexible quotas imposed by Brussels. But he does not want the industry's one chance to be gambled away. "We could finish right back where we were 40 years ago," he says.
FT Big Read page 9 Notebook page 10 Nick Clegg page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               275 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 12:38 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Sweden's Vattenfall commits to UK offshore windfarm despite Brexit; £300m Aberdeen Bay windfarm near Donald Trump golf course will be key testing ground for reducing cost

BYLINE: Adam Vaughan

SECTION: ENVIRONMENT

LENGTH: 550 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Swedish energy company Vattenfall is pushing ahead with a £300m windfarm off the coast of Aberdeen despite last month's EU referendum vote.
The offshore windfarm has been dogged by years of legal battles between Donald Trump and the Scottish government over its impact on his golf course, which the tycoon ultimately lost in the courts last year. 
But on Thursday Vattenfall announced its final investment decision on the European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, which sees it buying out Aberdeen Renewable Energy Group's 25% share for an undisclosed sum. 
The 11 turbines in the development will send clean energy back to the grid, but will also be a key testing ground for bringing down the cost of the technology, which is around twice as expensive as turbines on land. Ministers made clear last year that offshore was "still too expensive" and further subsidies would be conditional on the industry cutting cost. 
 Related:  Donald Trump's defeat over windfarm welcomed by green campaigners
The 92.4MW project in Aberdeen Bay is all about trying experimental technologies to drive down the costs, Vattenfall said. 
"It's all geared to a cost reduction," said Gunnar Groebler, the senior vice president at Vattenfall. "We expect a lot of findings, a lot of options to further reduce the cost. If you look in Europe, the cost is clearly going south. This windfarm will help us get to the next level." 
Among the cost-cutting measures is a means of attaching the turbines to the seabed using technology that uses less material and higher voltage cabling that loses less of the electricity generated. 
But the investment decision is also a vote of confidence in the industry, after the vote to leave the EU. Siemens said Brexit could freeze its offshore wind plans in the UK, though it later rowed back on the remarks. 
Groebler said Vattenfall was in the UK to stay. "We've repeatedly said the UK is a fundamentally interesting market for us, especially in wind, both onshore and offshore, and we have no reason to change that opinion. The best proof is the decision we are making, this is not something we do lightly." 
He added that it was too early to say what the new UK government's approach would be towards the industry, but he had seen no signs it would differ from government strategy under David Cameron. 
Groebler dismissed claims made on Wednesday by the former energy minister Brian Wilson that "offshore wind in Scotland is pretty much dead" after a court upheld a legal challenge against several projects over their impact on wildlife. 
"I think we prove him wrong, right? This is not a specific Scottish thing [issues around birds and planning consent], it can happen with any windfarm you develop."
Paul Wheelhouse, the Scottish energy minister, welcomed the investment decision. "This project will keep our nation at the forefront of innovation by allowing energy companies to identify new ways to reduce operating costs," he said.
WWF Scotland's climate and energy policy officer, Fabrice Leveque, said: "This is very positive news and provides a welcome boost to Scotland's offshore wind sector. Scotland has 25% of Europe's offshore wind resource and this new development provides a great opportunity to progress on capturing the benefits at lowest cost and least impact to the environment." 


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ABERDEEN, SCOTLAND (86%); EUROPE (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               276 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Take your time and let's make the best of Brexit, says Merkel

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 680 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May won the blessing of Angela Merkel to wait until next year to start talks on leaving the European Union. The German chancellor also unexpectedly left the door open to a deal to retain trading links alongside curbs on EU migrants.
Mrs May's choice of Berlin for her first foreign visit paid immediate dividends with support from Europe's most powerful leader to help Britain achieve the best possible Brexit arrangements.
The prime minister can expect a cooler welcome in Paris tonight when she meets François Hollande who wants Britain to begin the departure process as soon as possible and end turbulence on financial markets.
Amid the clamour from French and other European politicians to punish Britain for leaving the EU, there was a distinct lack of urgency in Berlin where Mrs Merkel said she was prepared to push for the best deal for both sides.
"I think it is in all our interests if Great Britain applies for this exit with a very well-defined negotiating position and with the clear possibility to say, how do we envision our future relationship to the EU," Mrs Merkel said.
"These must be parallel processes because you cannot cut ties first and then figure out in another long negotiation process which relationship one enters. A good preparation is important in my view and it is also in the interest of the EU. So we will wait for the time when Britain sends its application [to leave] and determine on that basis our own guidelines for the negotiations."
Mrs Merkel summed up the relaxed mood when she declared she did "not want any turbulence" adding that she wanted to "successfully contend with this situation so each side can get the best out of the British position."
Mrs May, standing alongside Mrs Merkel, said: "It is very clear to me that one of the messages the British people gave in their vote was that they wanted to see control brought into the movement of people from the EU into the UK and so that will be one of the issues we will be looking at and that as a government we will deliver on. I am clear we want to get the right deal in terms of goods and services for the UK. So we will be taking some time to consider our objectives before we trigger that formal process of negotiation."
Mrs Merkel did not repeat previous comments that full market access was only possible by accepting freedom of movement of people. It clearly left the door open for British negotiators to come up with imaginative proposals to try to reach a close Brexit deal with the EU. This would also be in Germany's interests, as Britain's second-largest trading and investment partner.
There was warm body language between the pair at the joint press conference when the prime minister declared they were both women who "get on with the job" and deliver results.
"I think what is very important is we have two women here who ... if I may say so, get on with the job and both want to deliver the best possible results for the people of the UK and the people of Germany," Mrs May said.
Mrs Merkel smiled and said: "Exactly. We are certain we will have good bilateral relations. The UK remains part of Europe, if not the union. We will find other ways and means to conduct our bilateral relations."
Mrs May spoke about a wide range of issues from Syria to Turkey with Mrs Merkel at a dinner in her chancellory offices of a tuna and avocado starter, followed by veal with mushrooms, vegetables and potatoes, and rounded off with marinated wild berries with ice cream or cheese and grapes.
Both leaders ignored a question from a journalist on whether Brexit could be avoided. Another asked: "What made you appoint Boris Johnson. To put it in football terms, why did you put a player on the pitch who doesn't want to play?" Mrs May tried to make light of the question, saying "it would be dangerous for a British prime minister to try and talk about football in Germany".
Earlier Downing Street announced Britain was giving up its presidency of the European Council next year. Mrs May decided Britain should skip its turn in the light of the referendum vote. David Aaronovitch, page 25
Graphic
A military welcome for Theresa May yesterday on her visit to Chancellor Merkel in Berlin. The two leaders may be in step on many issues but their footwear on the red carpet showed very different stylesADAM BERRY/GETTY IMAGES; MICHAEL KAPPELER/EPA


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               277 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 3:20 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Thanks, Brexit, for pushing us expats off our high horse; A sense of moral superiority is key to being a Brit in America. I feel lost without it

BYLINE: Emma Brockes

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 628 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For Brits in America, one unexpected side-effect of Brexit is how use of the word itself has, in some contexts, strayed pointedly from its original meaning. In the weeks since the referendum, more than one American friend has found it hilarious to say to me, at the end of a meeting, "Shall we Brexit?" Or, during a conversation in which I express doubts about my wi-fi provider or whether to hang in for another season of The Good Wife, "Maybe you should Brexit?" And so on.
 Related:  Thanks, Obama: Nigel Farage says US president helped make Brexit a reality
That this doesn't make me laugh has nothing to do with its relative humour. Nor can it entirely be put down to my ongoing dread about Britain leaving the EU.
Instead, it has to do with the odd phenomenon of removing the register in which I usually talk about Britain. It has long been the assumption of Brits in America that we are a less racist, less isolationist and altogether less fanatical country, where no one ever thinks to picket an abortion clinic or set up a doomsday cult. As a result, the standard marker of British superiority abroad has been to talk down the country - the weather sucks; the transport infrastructure is appalling; we are an awkward, dishevelled people - safe in the knowledge that nothing can shake us.
But it's hard to be self-deprecating when everyone agrees with your dismal assessment. Now, when an American refers sardonically to "Brexit", or mentions Britain with a condescension we once considered our sole preserve, it is hard to know how to respond.
Clearly a new attitude is called for. In light of what got us here, American-style patriotism isn't appealing. Icy continental hauteur is a possibility, although given the brittle state so many of us are in, it will be hard to pull off. Until things look up, then, the only option seems to be sheepishness - or to burst into tears.
                                        A drama with social anxiety                                      
To avoid the news, I have been bingeing on drama, specifically UnReal, the Lifetime series set behind the scenes of a reality TV show. Unlike every other behind-the-scenes show, including Aaron Sorkin's The Newsroom, it feels remarkably convincing.
The exception to this is when a character makes mention of social media. Just as when, in TV shows 10 years ago, a camera would peer over someone's shoulder as they typed out an email on no operating system known to man, when UnReal's fictional producer talks about a contestant "exploding on Twitter", or says "her social media buzz is off the charts", or that a picture of her in a bikini "got 3,000 likes on Instagram" it breaks the fourth wall.
I can't figure out why this is. Perhaps it's because phrases like "social media buzz" sound like a directive from the marketing department. Or maybe it's because any mention of social media on a show that, along with everyone else, is straining to court its approval, communicates an anxiety too large for the fiction to hold.
                                        Subterranean blues                                      
On the subway the other day, the countdown clock informed me that the next F train was 11 minutes away - a pause in service that, over the course of several minutes, caused multiple waves of passengers to have nervous breakdowns. One after another they glanced at the clock and said, "What? That's ridiculous," as it ticked down minute by minute. I can now say with authority that the amount of time beyond which New Yorkers judge a wait to be "insane" is four minutes. Brits might have slipped in every other category, but I suspect we still lead the world in enduring minor inconveniences.
 Related:  Do nothing at all - and just wait for the brainwave | Emma Brockes


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               278 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The Brexit divorce paper; FT BIG READ: ARTICLE 50

BYLINE: Alex Barker in Brussels

SECTION: ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1576 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The 262 words that frame Britain's EU divorce came to life on a kitchen table. The date was early 2003 and the place the small Brussels flat of John Kerr, a veteran British diplomat turned secretary-general for a conclave to develop a new EU constitution.
His job for the European Convention was to draft a formal exit clause for countries to leave the EU, a scenario the union had preferred to ignore. After a few years of lively political debate, a couple of failed referendums and a revised agreement known as the Lisbon treaty, those words became the notorious Article 50 , the law paving the way to Britain's EU afterlife.
At the time it was moderately controversial, but only in an academic way. "I certainly did not imagine it would be used by us," the now-Lord Kerr says. "But it is better to have a framework for leaving rather than none." How that secession clause is interpreted, the constraints it imposes on talks and what bargaining power it hands the EU will be a crucial factor in handling Brexit .
For the weight it carries, Article 50 looks like a bare skeleton, but it is the only formal structure for what ministers describe as one of the world's most complex negotiations.
So potentially unforgiving are its terms that David Cameron, former British prime minister, dubbed triggering Article 50 "the gamble of the century". His successor, Theresa May , has barely settled in to Downing Street yet is already under pressure from European countries to invoke it. There is nothing to stop Mrs May walking away from the EU and cutting all Britain's legal ties in one swoop. But to salvage anything from the 40-year partnership requires an exit deal under Article 50 - agreed via EU rules, under the pressure of a two-year deadline only the EU can extend.
Here, the Financial Times explains five of the most contentious issues over the Article 50 negotiation: the trigger, the clock, the balance of power, the options and the reverse gear.
There is no precedent for using Article 50. Indeed for the European project's first half-century, countries had no formal route out of the union. France first suggested one be included in the Treaty of Rome, which laid the foundations for "ever closer union". But it was rejected, along with successive mini-initiatives.
There has never been any doubt that a country could leave the bloc in practice under international law. But the captains of the project always saw it as not just a flimsy treaty, but an enduring sovereign bond. As Allan Tatham of Madrid's San Pablo University quipped in a paper on the subject: "Don't mention divorce at the wedding, darling!"
Eventually supporters of a secession clause thought it was time to construct an orderly process.
"I wanted to put an end to the sort of [Eurosceptic] stuff about how we are chained to the oars of the EU with no way out, galley slaves heading to an unknown destination," says Lord Kerr. "It was nonsense. If a country stopped paying the bills and stopped turning up at the meetings, in the end they would be out, whatever the rules."
When the first drafts of the exit clause were being debated, federalists were more torn over arguments that still have resonance. Some countries, including Germany and the Netherlands, objected on principle. Others wanted the clause written in a way that stopped a country breaking free without EU consent.
"It could develop into a blackmail clause or into a take-the-money-and-run clause because you can leave even without an agreement," said Frans Timmermans, now vice-president of the European Commission, who was a delegate to the constitutional convention.
With hindsight, the two-year deadline appears to have been quite a hurdle for secessionist states. Some senior EU officials believe Britain "will never notify" and give the tactical whip hand to Brussels, but will instead attempt to negotiate an exit deal outside Article 50.
It echoes the views of one prominent campaigner when the withdrawal clause was published in 2004.
"It is called the exit clause but it's actually a trap that would mean Britain would be reduced to a colonial state," said Nigel Farage, then leader of the UK Independence party and a cheerleader for the Leave campaign. "No prime minister could ever do it. If [it becomes law] there is no way out."
Separation notice Five crucial lines in a five-paragraph document
1 '. . . shall notify the European Council of its intention . . .'
Here lies the button. Once pressed, the Brexit break-up formally begins. Theresa May is waiting until the new year; Brussels and hardline EU states want it sooner. Ultimately only the UK can decide to invoke Article 50. But if Britain plays tactical games, and talks turn hostile, the EU has options. It might aggressively interpret "notification", or punish the UK in other ways. But that is a last resort, and would need some creative lawyering.
2 'taking account of the framework for its future relationship with the union'
Possibly the most important and least understood phrase in Article 50. These 12 words capture a defining feature of EU divorce: there is not just one deal to leave the bloc, but probably two or more. And they are negotiated under different rules, and most likely at different speeds.
Article 50 is largely backward looking. It deals with unravelling the legacy of membership, from budget dues or expatriate rights. One extreme way to do that is a clean break. That would simply sever UK-EU obligations: budget payments, membership rights of EU agencies, liabilities to pensions for EU staff, funding arrangements for UK universities - on a set date all of this would end.
Anything else requires a more complicated negotiation. To maintain areas of co-operation you need to roughly know what sort of relationship will follow divorce. So, for instance, any serious exit deal on EU university spending will make assumptions about future UK-EU relations. Would research co-operation continue? Will the UK continue making EU budget payments? Without making such assumptions, the only possible answer is a hard break.
Some of those pacts require a separate negotiating track; the EU cannot agree certain things under Article 50. It is not a short circuit to the treaty. A trade deal, for example, would involve more laborious voting and ratification rules, which take longer. A comprehensive deal, for instance, would need unanimity between 27 countries and ratification through 38 national assemblies and the European Parliament. That takes time and a lot of political capital.
So before an exit via Article 50 is complete, probably the best Britain can hope for is an agreement on a "framework" for future relations - such as agreed objectives for a trade deal. That makes building a transition to that point easier. But it also means there is a lot to agree to avoid a hard break with the EU.
3 '. . . unanimously decides to extend this period . . .'
The guillotine. The first deadline for talks is two years. After that, few senior EU officials believe it would be significantly extended. They do not want talks to drag on. This probably means that Britain's exit deal will be settled in the early hours of the morning after a gruelling summit. The way Article 50 is drafted implies that there will be no deal until everything is agreed because there are too many moving parts. That suggests a protracted period of uncertainty for businesses and EU citizens.
4 ' . . . shall not participate in the discussions . . .'
This sentence sets the voting rules for the EU to decide on Britain's exit deal - without Britain in the room. Its importance is more than practical. Britain remains a full member, with full membership rights, until the day it leaves. But that day is in reality the legal finale to a longer parting of the ways. In the hours after the Brexit vote, as Britain's influence in Brussels institutions fell away, EU leaders already started to meet without Britain to discuss Brexit's consequences. Diplomats expect the sense of separation to grow as the divorce talks raise tensions, and British officials either walk away from or are pushed out of EU policymaking processes.
5 ' . . . asks to rejoin'
Can Britain change its mind once Article 50 is invoked? Can the process be stopped or is it a one-way road? On this, the treaty is almost silent.
It makes clear that any country, once it has left, cannot rejoin without repeating the demanding EU accession process, which would include unthinkable political conditions for Britain like pledging to join the euro.
Charles Michel, the Belgian prime minister, hinted to the FT that if there was a request to reverse Article 50 it would be a difficult discussion, saying he fully expected Britain to "respect the choice of the people".
Lord Kerr argues that the absence of explicit guidance is telling: "There is nothing in the treaty saying it's irreversible. So it isn't. But of course some might want some sort of price to be paid."
European Commission lawyers take a harder line. To them, a decision to invoke Article 50 is a legal act that cannot be withdrawn. They want to avoid a hostile Britain withdrawing and resubmitting its notification, thereby resetting the two-year deadline. "This cannot be done unilaterally," says a senior EU official.
Should this situation arise, there is a middle ground. If the treaty is silent on any issue, the interpretation of the EU's 27 leaders would hold. In short, to be confident of stopping the Brexit process, Britain would need unanimity.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (79%); PT Portugal; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               279 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 8:09 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May will soon have to decide which Brexit to take; The PM cannot please both the City and anti-EU voters, and free movement is the sticking point

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1104 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It is now a month since Britain voted to leave the EU. By common consent, at home and abroad, it was a massive historical moment. The best of times for some. The worst of times for others. Some compared it to the fall of the Berlin Wall. Others to the defeat of Hitler. Yet with the exception of the banner-wavers who occasionally turn up chanting " Theresa May/Don't delay " and calling on the prime minister to trigger article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, the passions of June have dissolved in the torpor of July. Four million people signed a petition to hold a second referendum after the 23 June result, but little of their indignant spirit remains a month later. There have been few material economic consequences of the Brexit vote yet, especially in everyday life.
 Related:  In Brexit Britain, the northern powerhouse is more important than ever | Andy Burnham
True, there have been a very large number of other convulsive events in the past month to distract attention. The Turkish coup attempt, the Bastille Day tragedy in Nice, a new prime minister, a Labour leadership contest, Chilcot, Trump. Yet the national shrug of the shoulders about the Brexit vote, one month on, is both striking and disconcerting. The ConservativeHome columnist Paul Goodman this week compared the mood of post-Brexit reconciliation in Britain with the successful restoration of the Stuart monarchy in 1660. It's not a very accurate historical parallel, but one can understand what he is getting at.
May has had a month she could not have dreamed of. If the vote had gone the other way she was the big candidate for the chop in David Cameron's victory reshuffle. Instead she is his unchallenged successor, destroying the liberal metropolitan Tory project in 24 hours, and enjoying a triumphant debut at prime minister's questions against a second-rate Jeremy Corbyn. In her early dealing with the leaders of Scotland, Wales, Germany and France, she has not yet put a foot wrong.
All the same, Brexit overshadows everything in the May premiership. She is not in denial about it; nor should anyone else be. Brexit is still by far the most important change in our politics for decades, just as it was when the result was declared. It will dominate British government for years. Its consequences will be profound. Do not be distracted. The Tories' handling of Brexit matters far more than the flounderings of the Labour party.
May's visits to Germany and France this week were assured performances. But it is far from clear, including probably to her, what exactly she wants. May repeatedly intones the mantra that "Brexit means Brexit". But what does Brexit actually mean? She does not say. A week into her premiership we are none the wiser.
What it does not mean is what remainers would like it to mean. Those who want a minimalist Brexit want the UK to enjoy a post-Brexit relationship with the EU along Norwegian lines, with full or almost full access to the EU single market. That's what UK industry, and many unions, would like. It's what the City of London would like too. But the problems with that sort of relationship are that it means accepting freedom of movement and agreeing to make a contribution to the EU budget. That is fine for liberals. But it is unacceptable to post-liberals like May.
Politically, free movement is anyway an impossible sell now. May commands the scene but she only has a Commons majority of 16. Anti-European Tory backbenchers put down clear warning markers about both market access payments and migration controls in PMQs this week. Even if she wanted a Norway deal, May knows enough about recent Tory history to know that her MPs can make her life impossible if they choose.
She must also sense that free movement could be catastrophic electorally for the Conservatives. Freedom of movement would be too high a price to pay to maintain the newfound but still fragile post-Cameron unity in the party. But there has been a post-referendum shift in Labour thinking, especially among pro-Europeans, towards tighter controls. An unlikely prospect though it is, May does not want to be faced by a believable Labour party that casts her Brexit deal as soft on free movement.
The most important reason why this is unlikely is that May herself is a long-term supporter of tighter controls. She is not going to change that now. Perhaps she asked Angela Merkel this week if the UK could get a deal which combined access to the single market with controls on freedom of movement from the EU. If she did, Merkel will have said no, because such a concession would subvert the single market ethos and rules. François Hollande will have said no too. He cannot afford to set a precedent that Marine Le Pen would demand to emulate.
What this means for British politics has still not been sufficiently appreciated. The May government ultimately faces a choice between trying for a Brexit that the City and the financial sector wants, and trying for a Brexit the Brexit voters want. It is a choice May cannot avoid. Yet everything May has said about domestic priorities since entering the leadership contest suggests that she intends to deliver for the latter, the Brexit voters, rather than for the former, the City.
 Related:  EU referendum full results - find out how your area voted
Naturally, May will try to please both constituencies as much as she can. So the eventual Brexit package will not embody as stark a choice as I have implied. There will be exceptions to permit certain types of migrant - the devil is in the detail there. And there will be as many safeguards for the City as the government can achieve. Nevertheless, in a few months' time, she has to switch the treadmill on. Once she triggers article 50, she has got to know where she intends this journey to end.
That is why the great story of the May premiership is her attitude to the City of London. The balance between the financial sector's interests and those of anti-immigrant, left-behind Britain will be the acid test for her government. It will test the bond between the communitarian May and her more liberal chancellor of the exchequer, Philip Hammond, to the full. And it will test the credibility of the remarkable words May delivered in her Birmingham speech on 11 July, and repeated on the threshold of 10 Downing Street a week ago.
In the end, everything she has said points to Theresa May preferring a Brexit that delivers tighter border controls to a Brexit that delivers the market freedom the banks want. Is she ready for that choice and all that could follow it? The implications for Britain and its new prime minister would indeed be historic.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WALES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               280 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Threat of UK break-up outweighs any legal challenge; BREXIT; Devolved powers

BYLINE: Kiran Stacey in Edinburgh

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: In removing Britain from one union, one of Theresa May's most difficult tasks will be ensuring she does not inadvertently contribute to the break-up of another.
Last month's vote has emboldened nationalists in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, many of whom argue that leaving the EU should prompt a re-examination of the future of the UK.
But in reality, experts say, the devolved administrations have almost no legal power to stop Britain leaving the EU. "Formally, the nations of the UK don't have any power to in effect override Westminster sovereignty," said Robert Hazell, professor of government and the constitution at University College London.
The devolution acts for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland all allowed Westminster to set foreign policy. This meant David Cameron, former prime minister, could renegotiate EU membership without securing the agreement of Edinburgh, Cardiff or Belfast.
There is one constitutional route for the devolved administrations to stall Brexit. They could argue that leaving the EU would alter the balance of powers between them and Westminster, something that by convention cannot be done without the support of both sides.
Westminster politicians could simply ignore that, citing exceptional circumstances, but this risks causing outrage.
Jim Gallagher, visiting professor of government at Glasgow university, argues that if nothing else, the devolved administrations can make sure they get power over issues previously decided by Brussels. "If you've not got the Common Agricultural Policy, for example, then how are you going to set Scotland's agricultural policy?" he said. "The administrations will say, 'Devolve it to us'."
However, the most significant power available to these administrations - especially in Scotland and Northern Ireland, where the majority voted against Brexit - is political rather than legal.
Mrs May knows that if she presses ahead with Brexit without the support of voters outside England, she could foment nationalist feeling further, possibly to the extent where the break-up of the UK becomes inevitable. She acknowledged this after meeting Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's first minister, in Holyrood last week, after which she insisted she would take a "United Kingdom approach" to the Brexit talks.
This comment triggered suggestions that the Scottish government had been given a veto on Brexit, something Downing Street has been at pains to deny. "We are approaching this in a positive and constructive manner, but the final say of whether we leave the EU or not has already been taken by the British people," said a spokeswoman this week.
The ultimate power held by Ms Sturgeon, as well as Plaid Cymru in Wales and Sinn Féin in Northern Ireland, is to push for a referendum on sovereignty.
It is in Northern Ireland where the stakes are highest. Membership of both the EU and the European Court of Human Rights underpins the Good Friday peace agreement, while EU funds worth EUR1.3bn since 1995 have helped pay for its implementation. Brexit also raises the prospect that there could be a physical border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, along with passport checks and customs posts, which could anger voters on both sides of the border.
Sinn Féin has already called for a referendum to unite Ireland in the wake of last month's vote, but many in Westminster are concerned that such a prospect could reignite sectarian violence. James Brokenshire, the Northern Ireland secretary, was quick to dismiss such a possibility last week.
The chance of a referendum is greatest in Scotland, where 62 per cent of voters were for Remain. Ms Sturgeon has said she thinks another independence referendum is "highly likely". Her allies say privately she does not want to call for a vote unless she is sure of winning, which they say requires a sustained 60/40 lead in the polls. While Brexit has given the independence cause a boost, its lead is only about 53/47.
If the SNP wants to keep Scotland in the EU without another independence vote, it can push for membership even from within a country that is not a member. This kind of separate arrangement exists elsewhere, such as for Greenland, which is not an EU member, while its sovereign state of Denmark is.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); CARDIFF, WALES (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); SCOTLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); WALES (93%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               281 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 3:19 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: TSB chief says Brexit vote mortgage jitters faded fast; Spanish-owned bank's CEO Paul Pester says mortgage activity only dipped briefly but EU poll result could yet stall banking reforms

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 409 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Customers cancelled appointments to arrange mortgages in a knee-jerk reaction to the vote for Brexit, the chief executive of TSB said on Thursday, as the bank reported a sharp rise in profits for the first half of the year.
Paul Pester, chief executive of the Spanish-owned bank, said that after an initial dip, mortgage activity resumed a few days after the referendum result. He said that customer behaviour had altered more when England were playing during the Euro 2016 football tournament.
"We saw some people for a few days cancel some mortgage appointments," said Pester. The referendum result was announced on Friday 24 June and "by the Tuesday it was coming back to normal".
The self-styled challenger bank was created in 2013 when Lloyds Banking Group spun out 600 branches to meet a demand from the EU imposed in relation to its 2008 taxpayer bailout. TSB was floated on the stock market before being bought last year by the Spanish bank Sabadell.
Pester has urged the Competition and Markets Authority - whose final report on competition in banking is due by 12 August - to adopt proposals that would make it easier for customers to know how much they were paying for a bank account. He said he was concerned that Brexit could distract from attempts to boost competition on the high street at a time when the number of customers switching accounts across they industry had fallen 10%.
"What I'm nervous about is that the uncertainty created by the Brexit vote will refocus policymakers on negotiating the exit and will take their eye off the ball in the reform of banking," said Pester.
He had exceeded his goal to attract 6% of all current accounts switchers, taking a 7% share in the first six months of the year. Profits in the first half rose 440% to £125m, bolstered by the acquisition last year of £3.3bn of mortgages from Northern Rock. 
But Pester said the pace of profit growth was likely to slow down. He pointed to the impact of continued low interest rates and a rising bill for the use of Lloyds' IT systems, which would have "a bearing on the financial performance in future periods".
The share prices of other banks attempting to challenge the "big four" - Lloyds, Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC and Barclays - have been battered since the Brexit vote. Pester said, however, that TSB should be insulated from any concerns as its mortgage book had a loan-to-value ratio of 42% (meaning the size of a loan compared to the value of a property).


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ENGLAND (54%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               282 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 6:44 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK firms must learn to do without imported labour, warns Ofsted boss; Brexit is a chance for radical change in vocational training to meet needs of business, says schools inspectorate chief

BYLINE: Richard Adams Education editor

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 538 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: British companies will need to start relying more on local workers rather than labour from eastern Europe, according to the chief inspector of schools, Michael Wilshaw.
Wilshaw said he would be urging politicians to seize "the opportunity that now suddenly presents itself to re-order our technical and vocational education system in a truly radical way," after last month's EU referendum result.
"As the shock waves continue to reverberate, few would doubt that one of the critical questions we face will be how we equip our young people with the skills the UK needs to survive and prosper in a post-Brexit world," the Ofsted chief told a conference on technical education.
"As much as anything can be certain, businesses here will surely have to learn to rely less on imported workers from eastern Europe and elsewhere to plug existing skills gaps and much more on the home-grown population."
Forecasts published before the referendum suggested that the UK economy would shrink if it exited the EU, partly as a result of the lack of skilled labour. 
 Related:  CBI projects 1m fewer jobs post-Brexit with young worst hit
Wilshaw, who is stepping down at the end of this year and has had a combative relationship with ministers during his five years at Ofsted, said the UK was ill equipped to retrain its own skilled workers, arguing: "vocational training in this country does not have the esteem and status that it should have".
 Related:  Divert more university students into further education, report says
"Our future success and prosperity depends on us turning out many more confident and properly educated young people, who are work ready and have the technical, literacy, numeracy and personal skills that our industries need," he concluded.
Wilshaw's comments came in a speech offering wide-ranging criticism of the further education (FE) sector, underlining previous controversial remarks that education for 16 to 19 year-olds was better done in schools rather than specialist institutions.
"Right across the country, we find colleges that simply aren't delivering what's needed. In too many cases, inspectors are coming across weak provision, characterised by poor outcomes for learners and apprentices, high drop-out rates and sub-standard work experience placements that fail to develop students' industry-specific skills," Wilshaw said.
Recent Ofsted inspections of FE colleges revealed "an alarming rate of underperformance and failure," he said, although he did praise some outstanding FE colleges such as Truro and Penwith college in Cornwall.
Wilshaw also had critical words for university technical colleges (UTCs), which offer vocational education for those who are 14 years and older. He described their record as patchy, noting that only one of the 39 operating was rated as outstanding.
"If the UTC movement is to survive and prosper, then radical improvement is necessary. If this doesn't happen, politicians will come to the conclusion that the model is flawed and not worthy of further political or financial support," Wilshaw told an annual conference for UTCs in London.
UTCs were among the education reforms introduced by Michael Gove as education secretary, having been championed by Conservative peer Kenneth Baker.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               283 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Unemployment dropped to record low before Brexit vote

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The number of people in work hit a record high before the referendum, with 31.7 million Britons having a job in the first half of the year.
Employment hit 74.4 per cent in the three months to May, the highest level since records began 45 years ago.
The figures from the Office for National Statistics suggest that the labour market was in robust health the month before Brexit, with vacancies holding steady at 747,000 even after a 176,000 increase in employment over the three months, suggesting that hiring intentions were strong.
Britain's decision to leave the European Union has thrown the outlook into jeopardy, however. Two recent surveys, from the Recruitment and Employment Confederation and Deloitte, point to a softening in hiring intentions since the vote, although a survey from the Bank of England yesterday suggested that the impact may be less severe than feared.
The bank's survey of its regional agents found that business uncertainty had risen markedly but that most companies did not expect a short-term impact from the result on their staffhiring or investment plans. A third of businesses were preparing for some negative impact over the next year.
The figures, which also showed unemployment falling to 4.9 per cent, the lowest rate since September 2005, and a rise in wage growth to its fastest pace since last October, were welcomed by the former and present chancellors.
George Osborne, who returned to the back benches last week, said on Twitter: "Great to see employment rate at record high and unemployment below 5 per cent. Close to full employment we promised." Two years ago Mr Osborne pledged to deliver full employment, by which he meant the highest employment rate among the G7 advanced nations. Britain's employ-ment rate then was 71.2 per cent, far behind Germany. It has almost caught up. Philip Hammond, Mr Osborne's successor, hailed the figures as evidence of the underlying strength in Britain.
"The employment and wage figures are proof that the fundamentals of the British economy are strong," he said. "As the economy adjusts to the effect of the referendum decision, it is doing so from a position of economic strength."
Unemployment fell by 54,000 to 1.65 million over the three months to May, the lowest number in seven years.
Economists cautioned against being too optimistic, amid some signs of prereferendum nerves among employers. Unions warned that much of the jobs growth was fragile. Of the 176,000 new jobs in the past three months, 119,000 were self-employed. Nearly one in six workers in Britain is self-employed.
Frances O'Grady, general secretary of the TUC, said: "The huge increase in self-employment raises questions about the nature of these jobs. We need more decent jobs."
Laura Gardiner, senior policy analyst at the Resolution Foundation, said: "The challenge for business and policy makers will be to do all they can to protect workers from the ill-effects of any short-term uncertainty."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               284 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: US bonds face a Brexit moment in the form of a Trump presidency

BYLINE: Chris Iggo

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 703 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As the Republican national convention unfolds in Cleveland, Brexit-shocked investors are considering the reality that Donald Trump's election as president of the US could be the next source of political and economic uncertainty in this extraordinary year.
The surprise success of the UK's Leave campaign has given credence to the possibility that Mr Trump could be elected. In turn economists and investors are beginning to consider how serious the turbulence might be for a hitherto stable US bond market .
Encouragingly, political events in Europe have proved an unexpected boon to bond investors. Brexit uncertainty has reduced expectations for growth, inflation and interest rates, allowing yields to plumb new depths , even where they were already negative. Add to this the natural desire in unpredictable times to own assets that have more certain returns, and the result is borrowing costs that would have been dismissed as unfeasible just a few weeks ago.
As investors digest the medium-term impact, the critical consideration is whether the immediate impact of a potential Trump presidency on fixed income markets would be so benign.
Yields are higher than in Europe because the US economy is stronger and the Federal Reserve keeps toying with raising interest rates. But yields have fallen this year, driven by the appetite of global bond investors.
In the event of a Trump inauguration, much would depend on the victory margin and political climate during the height of the campaign. Markets tend to like Republican policy because it is fiscally hawkish and pro-business, but a coherent economic strategy has been absent in the campaign so far.
Any suggestion that Mr Trump might promote populist fiscal policies would point towards deficit spending and higher yields. Another consideration is the administration's attitude towards the Fed. Even a hint that its independence might be attacked would spook bond markets.
An antagonistic foreign policy could compound the situation. The US relies on overseas investors to fund its current account deficit and a significant share of the Treasury market.Any wrong move internationally might risk the willingness of foreign central banks to maintain their high levels of reserves in Treasuries.
Equally, foreign investors own a significant chunk of the US corporate bond market - about 35 per cent and rising - after a period of sturdy growth in appetite. International relations would need to be highly mindful of this domestic cornerstone.
Mr Trump's mooted policy of redeeming Treasury debt under par could have a radical impact. He has outlined the approach as a solution to government's dependence on low interest rates to keep its debt sustainable.
He hinted at making a deal below face value with Treasury debt investors in the event of an economic crash. In the short term, were investors to take it seriously, this policy would push yields higher and the dollar lower.
More critically, the global financial system is in part founded on confidence that US Treasury debt is backed with the full faith of the government - it is a stalwart haven asset. If there was even a small chance that this was no longer the case, the consequences for global markets and investor confidence could be catastrophic.
It seems unlikely that any US administration would take such risks with fiscal stability and international relations to the extent of causing financial meltdown. However, there is already a convincing argument for higher bond yields given low unemployment and signs of rising wages.
We cannot discount a response to uncertainty similar to what has unfolded in the past month in UK and European bond markets. But a Trump administration that prompts a wider budget deficit, a hostile Fed and less enthusiastic foreign investors could easily provoke a weaker dollar and higher bond yields. The job of central banks still engaged in quantitative easing would become much harder.
This year may mark the point when fixed income investors stopped relying on the predictable calendar of global interest rate decisions, and instead found their fortunes driven by a series of unexpected political events.
 Chris Iggo is chief investment officer fixed income at Axa Investment Managers


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GB United Kingdom; US United States of America; XB North America; XJ Western Europe; XR Americas; XG Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               285 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 4:25 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What does Brexit mean for open data in the UK?; Britain's decision to leave the EU will have an impact on open data projects and workers, but to what extent is still uncertain

BYLINE: Marc Ambasna-Jones

SECTION: MEDIA NETWORK

LENGTH: 1193 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: While the post-Brexit mood of Britain has been somewhat dampened by the falling pound and widespread uncertainty as to what the future holds for Britain outside of the EU, the new UK prime minster Theresa May has made one thing clear: "Brexit means Brexit". The economy is expected to come under pressure, but what does this mean to the UK in terms of open data? 
Could Brexit see the UK shelve or at least downsize its commitment to open data as economic uncertainty prompts more public cuts? Or will Brexit actually liberate UK open data and increase transparency, with the Government abandoning austerity in favour of public investment? 
It shouldn't be taken for granted that the Theresa May era will by default embrace David Cameron's 2010 policy towards open data. The new Prime Minister may have other priorities. The early rush to publish public data sets saw the UK take the global lead in open data - it's now ranked second behind Taiwan. With data.gov.uk, a single website for UK public data, launching in 2010 and Sir Tim Berners-Lee and Sir Nigel Shadbolt founding the Open Data Institute (ODI) in 2012, the UK was taking positive steps to creating a strong open data culture, but being world champions in this field doesn't count for much if you can't back it up with justifiable results.
Cabinet office policy on open data was in the doldrums well before the referendum
  Owen Boswarva - open data campaigner    
"The Government has invested a lot of money in open data but then people were asking, 'what do you do with it?'" says Ian Hetherington, founder and CEO of 3D mapping software company eeGEO. "What's the visualisation strategy? The data is useless unless you can visualise it."
Now there are further concerns over the future of the UK's open data culture. "Cabinet office policy on open data was in the doldrums well before the referendum," says open data campaigner Owen Boswarva when asked whether he thought Brexit would give the UK's open data movement a kicking. "Open data is already under threat from austerity, deregulation and cuts to public services." Brexit, says Boswarva, could make it worse.
 Related:  Could social media be tearing us apart?
"Government could use Brexit as an excuse to stop maintaining datasets that are produced to support EU programmes like Inspire and Eurostat, or to meet EU targets on air pollution and water quality. The UK would also no longer be bound by the PSI Directive, which underpins our regulatory framework for re-use of public sector information," adds Boswarva.
Chi Onwurah MP, shadow minister for culture and the digital economy, is also concerned. 
"Open data is very important to the current and future digital economy and the free flow of data drives innovation and improved services," she says. "However that free flow of data requires recognised and agreed standards for privacy, security and data formats. Exiting the EU means we may not meet EU standards as a trusted party and there is likely to be less collaboration and research with EU partners. This is likely to stifle innovation unless the government takes action."
This could have a huge impact as innovation has played a critical role in the unearthing of new open data initiatives, with a number of businesses having emerged over the past couple of years, such as transport app Citymapper, consultancy firm Geolytix, data analysts Spend Network and food marketplace Foodtrade, using public data as an essential base for their core proposition. More established companies such as engineering firm Arup and technical consultancy MIME Consulting use public data too to enhance their services and provide more accuracy to decision making. One start-up to have launched last year with an ambitious plan to "map the world in 3D" was eeGEO. The Dundee-based company uses a number of public data sets with partners to create mapping solutions for governments and businesses but there are concerns, certainly around Brexit and what this may mean in terms of any potential cuts. Open data it seems could be an easy target; and businesses are worried that a more closed, inward looking UK may lose patience with the cost of publishing and maintaining open data sets, vital for their products.
In Europe there is less concern. Marta Nagy-Rothengass, head of unit of the "data value chain" in DG Connect at the European Commission says change is unlikely. The European Data Portal, launched last November shouldn't be affected, she says. It has over half a million datasets (including 37,000 from the data.gov.uk portal) and geographically is not limited to the EU member states. The UK also signed up to the G8 Open Data Charter in June 2013 committing to transparency and accountability.
But while she talks about the benefits of open data outweighing any initial investment, she wouldn't be drawn on whether or not the UK would cut back on its open data commitments. So what is the UK mood?
Theresa May has already hinted at her desire for more transparency, at least in business, something which Jeni Tennison, deputy CEO of the ODI, says is a sign that Brexit could in fact be good for open data. She talks about the growing importance of the digital economy to the UK and how, if we are to trade with Europe we will still have to adhere to the same rules and regulations in terms of open data and data protection.
"We will need a strong data infrastructure to underpin our economy," says Tennison, adding that public and private data will be crucial in enabling digital services. 
 Related:  Data trusts could allay our privacy fears
To a certain extent Boswarva agrees. Brexit, he says, "could be a wake-up call for the UK" if government abandons austerity in favour of public investment.
"Open data is one place to start," he adds. "It is vital infrastructure for the digital economy. In the post-Brexit environment we will need to be more competitive. Some government departments, most recently Defra, are working hard to sustain that reputation. But many core reference datasets such as addresses and land ownership records remain under lock and key."
Clearly Brexit will have an impact on open data projects and workers - especially as many are from EU states - but to what extent is still uncertain. However for some including Wendy Carrara, principal consultant at Capgemini Consulting, who was a key member of the EU Open Data Portal project team last year, the idea of cuts is unfeasible. 
"We have reached a point of no return," she says. "Defining barriers or going back in terms of transparency would be very difficult." In short, it's just not worth the hassle, something some EU Remain campaigners said just a few long weeks ago.
                       To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox,                         sign up free for Media & Tech Network membership                       .                                        
                     All Guardian Media & Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled "Paid for by" - find out more                                            here                                          .                   


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               286 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday 12:07 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Whitehall chief John Manzoni's grand plans now lie shattered; Here's another damning NAO report on a lack of coherent planning and management, made worse as civil servants get sucked into Brexit work

BYLINE: David Walker

SECTION: PUBLIC LEADERS NETWORK

LENGTH: 689 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: You're the boss of a major organisation - a company or an NHS trust. Consultants report that you have good control on how much is being spent. But unfortunately, you have no systems to monitor what your organisation buys, or assess performance. It doesn't sound like you're going to get an annual bonus. 
 This, more or less, is the position John Manzoni is in. He is the chief executive of the civil service, but, according to the latest broadside from the National Audit Office (NAO), doesn't know and can't tell what the civil service is doing. His own department, the Cabinet Office, appears (again) to be ineffectual and marginal.
 Departmental spending plans, which the Institute for Government's Julian McCrae dubbed a "laundry list" of nice-to-haves, have not improved the way the civil service operates. The watchdogsaid that despite improvements in the way government plans and manages public sector activity, there is still no "functioning cross-government approach to business planning, no clear set of objectives, no coherent set of performance measures" and there are also serious concerns about the quality of management data. 
The single departmental plans were set out in all their glory earlier this year. Now they are revealed as exercises in story telling, the Whitehall equivalent of wetting a finger and sticking it in the air. They are short term and don't support proper planning of capital investment. In other words, we are pretty much where we were a year ago: UK central government literally doesn't know what it is spending and why.
 Brexit will make this worse. Within departments in recent days, senior civil servants have been preoccupied with briefing their new ministers, with much kudos attaching to who gets in first. The next question is who goes off to staff the new exit ministry and the Brexit units springing up across the piece. Performance management is for the also-rans.
 Related:  May's Whitehall reshuffle shows disregard for evidence and expertise
 In Manzoni's defence, he might say his title isn't accurate. He doesn't have executive command over Whitehall; cabinet secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood and his predecessors have made clear there is no corporate centre. The Cabinet Office doesn't performance manage departments. At best, as the report says, individual permanent secretaries may sign up to what the Cabinet Office proposes ); then again, they may not, preferring to follow their ministers and their own trajectories. 
 If Manzoni's defence - a strong one - is that it's all the Treasury's fault, that does rather open the question of what the Cabinet Office is for. He recently told the Commons public accounts committee it has just about given up monitoring how departments deal with their arm's length bodies (ALBs). Yet the NAO now says that in most departments ALBs don't link with departmental spending plans or objectives.
 It's true that when it comes to money, the Treasury is everywhere and the Cabinet Office nowhere. The Treasury negotiates control totals with departments. It does that more or less effectively, the NAO says in its assessment of the 2015 spending review. But it doesn't deliver value for money and doesn't prioritise one programme or project over another: if that's the territory the Cabinet Office should be occupying, it isn't.
 As for joining up policy, the Treasury's way of working also reinforces Whitehall's departmentalism. On apprenticeships, work and pensions and education collaborated but other examples of cross-departmental working are all too rare. In an ideal world, the new Treasury permanent secretary Tom Scholar would embrace this NAO report - good and effective government depends on applying its lessons. But he won't. This will join the shelf groaning with previous critiques of dysfunction at the centre of our government.
                     Talk to us on Twitter via                                            @Guardianpublic and                                            sign up                      for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               287 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 21, 2016 Thursday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Wizz Air grounds expansion plans in UK after Brexit vote

BYLINE: Graeme Paton

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 184 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The biggest no-frills airline in eastern and central Europe is planning to cut its proposed expansion in the UK because of the weakness of the pound, particularly against the euro, since the vote to leave the European Union.
Wizz Air noted in a first-quarter trading update that it had been intending to boost its presence in the UK by 30 per cent, equivalent to four extra aircraft based in the UK this year, but is halving this. The London-listed airline said that it would redeploy the aircraft to another country.
The decision is the latest blow to the airline industry since the referendum last month.
EasyJet has already announced plans to set up a holding company on the European mainland to protect its business interests outside Britain, and Ryanair has threatened to cut investment in the UK.
Jozsef Varadi, chief executive of Wizz Air, said: "We are a euro company, every [pound] sterling we earn in revenue translates into euros, and it is 19 per cent less euro than what it was a year ago."
Wizz Air shares, which were trading at nearly £20 apiece before the Brexit vote, shed 18p to close at £15.25.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               288 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hollande steps in as our ally in European Brexit battle; French president: Tax reform will not be part of Brexit negotiations

BYLINE: Kevin Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 614 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: FRENCH President Francois Hollande has broken ranks to publicly back Ireland's 'special case' for a place at the centre of Brexit negotiations.
While German Chancellor Angela Merkel has shown a clear reluctance to admit that Ireland will need concessions, Mr Hollande said France "understands" our position is unique.
"I do recognise that there is a special situation for Ireland. It's a special situation that has to be found a place in the negotiations," he said after an hour-long meeting with Taoiseach Enda Kenny.
His remarks are a major boost for the Taoiseach after his plea for recognition of the relationship between Ireland and the UK was effectively shunned by Ms Merkel (inset) in Berlin just 10 days ago.
She insisted that Ireland's "voice" would be treated equally with those of other member states and twice declined to acknowledge a 'special case' status.
In contrast, Mr Hollande came to Dublin to declare that he wanted to be an ally during the forthcoming talks. He even went so far as to point out that while the two countries are the UK's closest neighbours Ireland is "even more of a neighbour than France".
Mr Kenny said the president was "fully acquainted with Europe's involvement in the Good Friday Agreement over the years".
"That is a unique perspective that we bring to these negotiations... Europe has contributed greatly to the support of the Good Friday Agreement and keeping that peace together."
He added: "I'm very glad that President Hollande has referred to that."
After his brief visit to Dublin, Mr Hollande flew back to Paris where he met new British Prime Minister Theresa May.
The pair disagreed over the timeframe in which the UK should formally request to leave the EU, with Mr Hollande saying "the sooner the better". He said any delay would "cause damaging doubt". However, the prime minister indicated she will not trigger Article 50 for at least six months.
In another positive development for Ireland yesterday, Mr Hollande also offered reassurance that tax harmonisation will not be brought into the Brexit negotiations under any circumstances as had been speculated by some politicians.
French governments have frequently objected to Ireland's controversial 12.5pc corporation tax rate.
But speaking at a press conference in Government Buildings, Mr Hollande said: "In terms of taxation or tax harmonisation, that has nothing to do with Brexit."
The French President is taking a particularly hard line on the UK, saying: "It's the British that will have to bear the consequences."
However, in relation to Ireland Mr Hollande said: "I'm also very aware that Brexit can have consequences for Ireland... You, of course, have land and a shared border.
"And that's why you are so attached to the idea that the Good Friday Agreement can be preserved. France understands this position because it's very important for peace.
"We believe the free movement of workers should be preserved. But the access to the single market cannot be guaranteed unless they [the UK] say the free movement of workers will be respected."
The president added that he hoped his visit would help "intensify" the relationship between France and Ireland.
"I will come back again because I had to cut short my visit given the drama we experienced on the Promenade des Anglais".
He now intends to "swap views" with Ms Merkel in light of yesterday's meetings with Mr Kenny and Ms May.
Today the Taoiseach travels to Cardiff for an extraordinary meeting of the British Irish Council, hosted by the First Minister for Wales, Carwyn Jones.
The new UK Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, James Brokenshire will attend along with Arlene Foster, Martin McGuinness and Scotland's Nicola Sturgeon.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (94%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               289 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bothered by Brexit? Join us in Calais, says mayor

BYLINE: Georgie Keate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 252 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The mayor of Calais has written a public letter to Theresa May inviting British businesses compromised by Brexit to relocate to northern France.
Natacha Bouchart has taken out an advertisement in the Dover Mercury headlined "An open letter to Theresa May" in an effort to attract companies across the Channel.
The tongue-in-cheek message reads: "To the PM, Mrs Theresa May: As mayor, as a woman, I wish you a very friendly greeting from Calais. I wish you every success in your new charge and every encouragement accompanies you to complete your task.
"As the very moment where new relationships are being built, be reassured, dear Theresa, that Calais is more than ever looking towards Britain."
She went on: "You know that for centuries Calais has been a bridge between our two countries. You know that for centuries we shared a common destiny. Let's continue to build our future together! To you, dear Theresa, tourists, businessmen, traders, institutions, politicians, I want to say: 'You're welcome'. "Calais is the natural gateway between France and Britain. Calais can accommodate you, Calais offers you its hand."
The advert will be seen by some as a dig at Britain's attitude to the refugee camps in Calais: Ms Bouchart has previously suggested they be moved from France to the UK.
Speaking to the Dover Mercury, Ms Bouchart, said that businesses ought to relocate to northern France so they can "maintain trading ties within the EU".
She said property prices and office rents in Calais were "very competitive".
Graphic
Natacha Bouchart has extended an open invitation to businesses


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               290 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 5:08 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit adds £100m to potential cost of BHS pensions bailout; Sir Philip Green's bill could hit £670m, including assumed overheads an insurance firm would seek to recoup

BYLINE: Sarah Butler

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 654 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir Philip Green is facing an uphill battle in his attempt to bail out BHS's pension fund after the British vote to leave the European Union added about £100m to the potential bill.
As MPs prepare to publish a report on the demise of BHS on Monday, Green is in talks with regulators and pension fund trustees about how to fulfil his promise to "sort" the failed department store's pension deficit, which stood at £571m on one measure at the time of the company's collapse.
Industry experts said a plunge in the value of gilt yields after the EU referendum had contributed to a near 19% rise in the average value of pension deficits controlled by the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), a lifeboat scheme funded by levies on industry, between February and June. This indicates a rise of about £100m for the BHS scheme.
In order to ensure members of BHS's schemes receive full pension benefits, Green's total bill could now be about £670m, valued on a buyout basis that includes the assumed overheads that an insurance company would seek to recoup.
Green, who sold BHS for £1 to the formerly bankrupt Dominic Chappell about a year before the retailer went into administration, remains responsible for bailing out the pension deficit as regulators have powers to pursue former owners.
The former BHS owner is thought to be hoping to work out a deal under which he could use cash lump sums to buy out members of the pension scheme who have savings of less than £18,000. That would leave a small number of remaining members who could transfer to a new scheme, potentially knocking hundreds of millions of pounds off Green's bill.
A spokesman for Green's Arcadia Group declined to comment but sources close to the company admitted the deal would need more work given Brexit's impact on the pension deficit.
Lord Myners, the former M&S chairman who is working as an adviser to MPs investigating BHS's pension problems, has suggested such a deal could cost about £400m.
Green began working on the plan, then named Project Thor, when he owned BHS, but decided to sell the business before a deal had been agreed. When BHS went into administration, the pension scheme automatically fell under the auspices of the PPF.
Pensions experts said the PPF's rules meant it would now be much tougher for Green to buy out BHS fund members with small pension pots. The lifeboat's rules do not allow him to buy out individual members unless its lawyers can be assured that no members of the scheme are disproportionately benefiting or losing out. 
John Ralfe, an independent pensions expert, said no such deal had ever been agreed with the PPF and it would be difficult for Green to break new ground.
An alternative would be to move all members to a new scheme and then offer to buy out those with small pension pots - potentially a highly expensive move.
"There is no clever 'financial engineering' solution available. The only way for Sir Philip to square the circle, and remove the threat of legal action, is to agree a big cash payment with the Pensions Regulator," Ralfe said. 
Given the complexity of agreeing a deal within Green's budget, it's thought to be unlikely that pensioners will hear about the future of their savings before the end of the year.
Chris Martin, chairman of the BHS pension fund trustees, said: "The trustees are really positive about the possibility of finding a solution but are also very conscious that sorting out the practicalities and technical complexities may take some time."
The importance of the PPF reaching a deal with Green was laid bare on Thursday. The body's annual report revealed that the value of claims on the PPF rose by £322m to £476m in the year to the end of March, with BHS making up more than half the value of all claims on the pensions lifeboat in the year. 
For technical reasons, including its ability to trim benefits to members by 10%, the cost to the lifeboat of bailing out BHS's pensions scheme is £275m.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               291 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 5:08 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit adds £100m to potential cost of BHS pensions bailout; Sir Philip Green's bill could hit £670m, including assumed overheads an insurance firm would seek to recoup

BYLINE: Sarah Butler

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 738 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir Philip Green is facing an uphill battle in his attempt to bail out BHS's pension fund after the British vote to leave the European Union added about £100m to the potential bill.
As MPs prepare to publish a report on the demise of BHS on Monday, Green is in talks with regulators and pension fund trustees about how to fulfil his promise to "sort" the failed department store's pension deficit, which stood at £571m on one measure at the time of the company's collapse.
 Related:  Call for new powers to protect company pensions after takeovers
Industry experts said a plunge in the value of gilt yields after the EU referendum had contributed to a near 19% rise in the average value of pension deficits controlled by the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), a lifeboat scheme funded by levies on industry, between February and June. This indicates a rise of about £100m for the BHS scheme.
In order to ensure members of BHS's schemes receive full pension benefits, Green's total bill could now be about £670m, valued on a buyout basis that includes the assumed overheads that an insurance company would seek to recoup.
Green, who sold BHS for £1 to the formerly bankrupt Dominic Chappell about a year before the retailer went into administration, remains responsible for bailing out the pension deficit as regulators have powers to pursue former owners.
The former BHS owner is thought to be hoping to work out a deal under which he could use cash lump sums to buy out members of the pension scheme who have savings of less than £18,000. That would leave a small number of remaining members who could transfer to a new scheme, potentially knocking hundreds of millions of pounds off Green's bill.
A spokesman for Green's Arcadia Group declined to comment but sources close to the company admitted the deal would need more work given Brexit's impact on the pension deficit.
Lord Myners, the former M&S chairman who is working as an adviser to MPs investigating BHS's pension problems, has suggested such a deal could cost about £400m.
Green began working on the plan, then named Project Thor, when he owned BHS, but decided to sell the business before a deal had been agreed. When BHS went into administration, the pension scheme automatically fell under the auspices of the PPF.
Pensions experts said the PPF's rules meant it would now be much tougher for Green to buy out BHS fund members with small pension pots. The lifeboat's rules do not allow him to buy out individual members unless its lawyers can be assured that no members of the scheme are disproportionately benefiting or losing out. 
John Ralfe, an independent pensions expert, said no such deal had ever been agreed with the PPF and it would be difficult for Green to break new ground.
An alternative would be to move all members to a new scheme and then offer to buy out those with small pension pots - potentially a highly expensive move.
"There is no clever 'financial engineering' solution available. The only way for Sir Philip to square the circle, and remove the threat of legal action, is to agree a big cash payment with the Pensions Regulator," Ralfe said. 
Frank Field MP, chairman of parliament's work and pensions committee which has been investigating the demise of BHS, said: "Sir Philip can break the logjam by signing a cheque. The only restraint is his generosity."
Given the complexity of agreeing a deal within Green's budget, it's thought to be unlikely that pensioners will hear about the future of their savings before the end of the year.
Chris Martin, chairman of the BHS pension fund trustees, said: "The trustees are really positive about the possibility of finding a solution but are also very conscious that sorting out the practicalities and technical complexities may take some time."
The importance of the PPF reaching a deal with Green was laid bare on Thursday. The body's annual report revealed that the value of claims on the PPF rose by £322m to £476m in the year to the end of March, with BHS making up more than half the value of all claims on the pensions lifeboat in the year. 
For technical reasons, including its ability to trim benefits to members by 10%, the cost to the lifeboat of bailing out BHS's pensions scheme is £275m.
On Friday, a second administrator tasked with investigating the role of former directors was appointed to BHS after pressure from the PPF. FRP Advisory will work alongside the existing administrators at Duff & Phelps.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               292 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and a Border poll

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A chara, - In relation to the Taoiseach's suggestion that the people of Northern Ireland be allowed vote on the question of a united Ireland to avoid leaving the EU against their will, the necessary constitutional changes need not be that profound. 
The long-mooted confederal solution would mean that while from the outside "Ireland", like Belgium, would appear to be one polity, two functioning states would remain.
Austria-Hungary had only four federal departments: army, navy, foreign policy and customs.
The North-South Ministerial Council, Oireachtas Éireann and the Assembly could continue with minor amendments to the Belfast Agreement and Bunreacht na hÉireann to facilitate the election of a federal government and parliament with powers delimited to defence, customs and foreign/EU affairs and a federal court to deal with interpretation and application of the law in these areas. - Is mise,
DÁITHÍ­ 
Mac CÁRTHAIGH, BL
Dublin 7.
Sir, - Britain supports Northern Ireland to the tune of many billions of pounds a year. It is a fact that one in three employed people in the North are in the public service in one form or another. 
We in the Republic could not afford this. Northern Ireland by itself is not economically sustainably as a "country".
So, why not be realistic and eliminate this pipe-dream of unification?
We in the Republic, due to a handful of greedy bankers and subservient political leaders, will be in debt for many generations to come. Why add more austerity measures to the already overtaxed populace? - Yours, etc,
MIKE MAHON, 
Templeogue, 
Dublin 6W.
Sir, - I wonder has Enda Kenny considered how to persuade even a minority of unionists to accept the idea of a united Ireland? Come to that, how to persuade probably a majority of so-called nationalists to the idea, since to paraphrase St Augustine, they are in favour of unification, but not just yet, thank you. 
Has he considered the distinct possibility of a bitter civil war breaking out in the North with the Irish Army supposed to keep the peace in the North in place of the British army? 
Has he considered how much it would cost to replace Britain's largesse to Northern Ireland? 
However, here's some good news for Mr Kenny. If he wants a united Ireland, he can have it right now. All he has to do is persuade his fellow nationalists of the merits of a reunited kingdom. 
That should be easier than persuading unionists of the merits of a united Ireland. - Yours, etc, 
DAVID HERMAN, 
Benllech, 
Wales. 
Sir, - The absence of a cunning Brexit plan would suggest that there is absolutely nothing "mischievous" in the Taoiseach advocating discussions about the choices that should be placed before future voters in the event of a cross-Border poll.
A cross-Border commission could perhaps consider a more pluralist constitution and how the different traditions of all four provinces could best be accommodated, along with other matters, such as social security, secular education, healthcare, justice and foreign policy. The commission could also examine what extra financial support would be made available to ensure the successful incorporation of a different region within the EU. 
To describe the choice in terms of unification is provocative and counter-productive; the choice is how can different regions on a small island on the periphery of Europe co-operate in the best interests of all their citizens. - Yours, etc,
ALISTAIR CRAIG,
London. 


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); HUNGARY (79%); WALES (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); BELGIUM (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               293 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit fears eased [...]; IN THE NEWS

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 29 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit fears eased Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, has urged people to take warnings of a severe economic slowdown after Brexit with a grain of caution.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               294 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit fears eased; IN THE NEWS

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 25 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, has urged people to take warnings of a severe economic slowdown after Brexit with a grain of caution.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Northern Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               295 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit fears have been overblown, Draghi says; Markets 'are resilient and recovery is on course'

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 560 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Mario Draghi played down fears about the wider impact of Brexit yesterday as he urged people to take warnings of a severe economic slowdown with a "grain of caution".
The president of the European Central Bank joined a growing chorus of voices to strike a measured tone about the repercussions of Britain's decision to leave the EU.
Markets have been resilient since June 23, Mr Draghi said, and the recovery in the eurozone is proceeding at a steady and moderate pace.
"All that can be said is that it's a risk that has materialised and it's a downside risk," he added.
Mr Draghi's comments come after similar comments by two Bank of England rate-setters in the past few days, who have argued against a hasty response to the Brexit vote. Martin Weale and Kristin Forbes said that they would prefer to wait for official data before making any policy decisions.
A regional survey by the Bank published on Wednesday found that it was "business as usual" for two thirds of UK companies. George Osborne, the former chancellor who led the "Project Fear" campaign for the Remain side, has since declared himself a Brexit optimist.
Mr Draghi's emollient stance after revealing that the ECB had left policy unchanged this month dampened expectations of a significant intervention to shore up growth and lifted the euro by 0.4 per cent against the dollar.
"The figure that circulated in the aftermath of Brexit was the impact [on eurozone growth] of 0.2 to 0.5 per cent over three years. I believe the commission has come out with a similar figure of 0.25 to 0.5 per cent. We should take these estimates with some grain of caution," he said. "What is clear is that financial markets and the banking sector have reacted in a fairly resilient fashion to the event. We haven't observed any disruption either in financial markets or the banking sector." Mr Draghi said that markets should not doubt the ECB's "readiness, willingness and ability" to act and reiterated that it could use all the tools at its disposal, including a rate cut, more quantitative easing and further cheap funding schemes for the banks.
The International Monetary Fund warned on Tuesday that Brexit would hit eurozone growth and cut its forecast for next year by 0.2 percentage points to 1.4 per cent. It said that it had been planning to raise the outlook before the referendum.
Mr Draghi said that the impact for the moment seemed minimal. Secondquarter growth was already on course to be slower than in the first three months, he claimed, but the recovery would continue at a moderate pace. "It's too early to say what is going to be the final impact," he added.
The ECB will update its growth and inflation forecasts for its next meeting in September, when any necessary policy action could be launched.
Brexit has raised questions about the profitability of European banks, particularly in Italy and Portugal, and drawn attention back to their bad debts.
Speaking just over a week before the publication of stress test results for the top 51 banks in Europe, Mr Draghi called for a state-funded "backstop" to take the loans off their books.
Mr Draghi will be attending the G20 meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors in Chengdu, China, this weekend. He said: "The message that will probably come out will be a message of stability."
Inside today London needs to retain its single market access


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               296 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: BREXIT NEGOTIATIONS >Hollande says British [...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 15 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: BREXIT NEGOTIATIONS >Hollande says British exit from EU cannot 'drag on' as he meets May - p24


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               297 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit scenes from a country house

BYLINE: Robert Shrimsley

SECTION: NOTEBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 648 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's new prime minister, Theresa May, has ruled that Chevening, the country retreat of the foreign secretary, will not be the exclusive perquisite of Boris Johnson, but must be shared by him with the two other leading Leavers, Liam Fox, the international trade secretary, and David Davis, the Brexit secretary.
Scenes from a country house:
Boris Johnson: Bloody hell what are you doing here Fox? This is my week.
Liam Fox:  I reserved it. I've got a trade delegation due in the next hour.
BJ: A trade delegation, where from?
LF: Ocado.
BJ: So not so much a trade delegation as a man delivering groceries.
LF: I prefer to think of it as our first shipment of tariff-free perishables.
(A loud voice breaks the conversation ):
BJ: Davis! Not you as well.
David Davis: Listen, you've had this place for the past two weeks, it's my turn and I've got guests coming.
BJ: But I bagsed it. I've got work to do.
LF: I've got a trade delegation coming.
BJ:  It's not a trade delegation, it's an Ocado van.
DD: I've got the EU president coming.
BJ: Old Tusk eh, the Polish plumber.
DD:  Be quiet he might hear you.
Donald Tusk: You owe me an apology.
BJ:  No offence Tusky. There is a rich thesaurus of things I might have said which might have been misconstrued.
DT:  Misconstrued! You just said it.
BJ:  Look there are serious issues on our agenda, like Yemen. I'm focusing on Yemen. I'll be in the library.
LF:  I need the library.
 It is evening (in Chevening): 
LF:  Look at all these plates in the sink. None of you wash your dishes.
BJ:  How do you know they're ours?
LF: Because I always wash my plates.
DD:  We need a rota.
BJ:  I'll get my officials to draw one up.
LF:  And for taking out the rubbish.
DD:  We need a take-out-the-trash day. And you have to take your turn, Boris. No hiding it in the maze. Traxit means Traxit.
BJ:  Can't we get some staff to do it? Some girl from the Commonwealth, a nice smiling piccaninny .
LF:  You've got to stop talking like that. I've got a trade delegation coming. In fact, I have just struck a big trade deal and they'll be here within the hour . . .
DD:  Terrific.
LF: . . . with two margherita pizzas and one quattro stagioni.
BJ:  So the trade deal is with Pizza Hut?
LF:  They are throwing in some garlic bread as a gesture of goodwill.
BJ:  Salutations Liam, bene factum. I say we grab the pizzas, forget about old Tusk and watch Top Gear .
The library: Fox is on the phone:
LF:  Listen prime minister, I'm very worried about Boris and David. They aren't taking their duties seriously. This could be very bad for us.
In the hall:
BJ:  What's all this banging.
DD:  Liam's in the dining room.
BJ:  With a revolver?
DD:  No he's locked himself in.
LF:  I've taken back control of the dining room. You can't come in till you abide by treaty obligations.
BJ:  What?
LF:  You're not coming back in until you start washing up your crockery.
The lounge (the next morning): 
BJ:  Listen, I think we are missing a trick. We've got three good-looking guys, a huge country house, dozens of servants and a lake. I don't know about you but that says "party" to me. What say we get all our EU partners in, bring in some models, get them drunk, take pictures and then negotiate access to the single market.
LF:  But who's going to clean-up?
BJ:  Strewth, this is high diplomacy. Are you a minister or a maid?
The library: Davis is on the phone
Theresa, they just aren't taking this seriously. If you don't get them out of my way, Brexit may not mean Brexit .
The following day: 
DD:  Listen as we're all here. We should take this time to work out the deal we want; what Brexit will mean.
LF:  Brexit means Brexit.
DD:  Good, well that didn't take as long as I thought.
The library: Johnson is on the phone
Can I speak to the prime minister. She's not there. Oh, where is she? In Berlin you say, with the chancellor , meeting EU heads of state. No, she must have forgotten to mention it.
robert.shrimsley@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               298 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit talks must not drag on, warns Hollande

BYLINE: Sam Lister

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 708 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: FRENCH President Francois Hollande has warned that the Brexit negotiations should not be allowed to "drag on".
Mr Hollande, who has previously said that withdrawal talks under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty "cannot be delayed or cancelled", said: "The sooner the negotiations are open the better, and the shorter the better."
His comments came after German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Britain should "take a moment" to prepare for withdrawal from the European Union and Ms May indicated that she was unlikely to start the two-year process before the end of 2016.
Negotiations Mr Hollande had his first meeting with Theresa May as UK prime minister yesterday. She travelled to Paris for a working dinner at the Elysee Palace to discuss Britain's plans to quit the EU following last month's referendum.
After talks in Dublin with Taoiseach Enda Kenny, the French president said: "Should the negotiations be shorter? The most important thing is that they should not drag on.
"The sooner the negotiations are open the better, and the shorter the better."
Mr Hollande said that Brexit was "a decision that was taken by the British people" and it was the British people who "will have to bear the consequences".
"Europe will try its best to give its best relationship with the UK," he said.
"But there's a time the politicians have to accept this vote. They have to accept the consequences."
Responding to his comments, Ms May's official spokeswoman said that the Elysee meeting would provide an opportunity for the leaders to "sit down and talk about these issues face to face" and for the PM to set out what her approach will be.
"They have already had a good phone call last week, when she said it was going to take some time to prepare for these negotiations," said the spokeswoman.
The spokeswoman said that Ms May stressed that France is "one of our oldest and most important partners, where the depth of our relationship - particularly on security and defence - is very important for both of us".
She added: "It will be an opportunity to talk about the whole range of important aspects to our bilateral relationship. The PM's clear message will be the importance we attach to that relationship. "We don't think it should be defined by us both being members of the EU. We can have a strong relationship with the UK outside the EU and France inside."
The working dinner came a day after Mrs May's first meeting as PM with German counterpart Mrs Merkel.
At discussions in Berlin, the Chancellor said Britain should "take a moment" over its plans to sever its ties with Brussels but warned against leaving the negotiations "up in the air".
Mrs May insisted that Germany would "remain a vital partner and a special friend for us" after Brexit.
She added: "All of us will need time to prepare for these negotiations and the United Kingdom will not invoke Article 50 until our objectives are clear.
"That is why I have said already that this will not happen before the end of this year.
"I understand this timescale will not please everyone but I think it is important to provide clarity on that now."
Mr Hollande also said that British people living and working in France could stay "as long as they like", adding that he expected a reciprocal agreement to be reached for French citizens in the UK.
There will also be greater cooperation between the nations on security and anti-terror measures, the two leaders agreed, as they met in the wake of the attacks in Nice.
Stark However, the French President also signalled that the UK faces a stark choice over access to the single market.
He said the UK currently had access because it respected the full freedoms of the EU but if it wanted to remain it would have to abide by the full freedoms. They could not be separated.
There is now a choice, he added, to remain in the single market and take free movement or have another status that will be subject to negotiation.
He said there was no doubt the UK would leave the EU but uncertainty triggered by a dragging out of the process would be bad for the whole of the EU and its economy.
Brexit was 'a  ;  ;  decision that was  ;  ;  taken by the  ;  ;  British people'  ;  ;  and it was the  ;  ;  British people  ;  ;  who 'will have to  ;  ;  bear the  ;  ;  consequences'  ;
Graphic
Prime Minister Theresa May holds a joint news conference with French President Francois Hollande at the Elysee Palace, Paris. Photo: Stefan Rousseau/ PA Wire


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (77%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               299 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 4:27 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote has bolstered Heathrow's fortunes, says airport chief; Falling pound has attracted foreign investment and strengthened case for third runway, says John Holland-Kaye

BYLINE: Gwyn Topham Transport correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 634 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Brexit vote has delivered a boost to Heathrow's fortunes, with the weak pound attracting foreign investors, encouraging international passengers to spend more in its terminals, and strengthening the airport's case for expansion, the chief executive has claimed. 
The airport has reported an 8% rise in profits for the first six months of this year, driven by an increase in retail sales that John Holland-Kaye suggested could accelerate with the further drop in sterling since the referendum on 23 June. "With the exchange rate dropping, it's better value to shop at the airport than at the destinations," he said.
The growth in airport shopping revenues came despite a decline in "big spenders" from Russia, China and Nigeria, he said. In recent weeks Heathrow had "seen there's a huge appetite to invest: we've done a lot of deals and refinancing abroad, we just raised around £85m in Norwegian kroner at very attractive terms", Holland-Kaye added.
He said while buying into the UK had become much cheaper for foreign investors, there was also a "flight to quality ... We're a very safe, long-term investment for people."
Releasing its results, the airport chief said the referendum had further strengthened the case for expansion: "In an uncertain economic environment, a £16bn privately funded infrastructure investment will create up to 180,000 jobs and £211bn of growth across the UK. Only Heathrow expansion will allow exporters to trade with all the growing markets of the world." 
However, the head of the National Audit Office, Sir Amyas Morse, has warned that major infrastructure projects may have to be culled as the government prepares for a costly Brexit. Although the runway would be privately financed, additional road and rail infrastructure to support expansion was estimated to cost £5.7bn by the Airports Commission and up to £10bn more by Transport for London, a figure Heathrow disputes.
Holland-Kaye expects a decision on the third runway to come in early September, more than a year after the Airports Commission delivered its recommendation to the government.
"Look at the energy that the government has been putting in to showing their difference to the previous administration - they want a positive plan for the post-Brexit world and to assure everyone that Britain is open for business," he said.
"We saw the difficulty David Cameron had. Theresa May is very different, she's at the height of her powers and this is a time when she drives big change and shows she means business."
However, May opposed the Labour decision to build a third runway in 2009, and ministers who were ardent critics of the expansion, including Justine Greening, Boris Johnson, and Philip Hammond, have gained heavyweight promotions under May. 
Some bookmakers have recently reduced the odds on Gatwick beatingHeathrow in the race for an additional runway. But Holland-Kaye said: "Look at what the government is trying to achieve - there's only one game in town for that. If we want to go to long-haul markets rather than short-haul EU, we are the ones who get you there. There's no logic for going against the Airports Commission policy recommendation."
Airlines have trimmed their profit forecasts for the coming years, with demand expected to fall along with UK growth rates. Holland-Kaye said Heathrow would withstand such a decline, pointing out that passenger numbers had dropped only slightly during the 2008 financial crisis and then bounced back. 
"We're not talking about a decision for one or two years but a long-term decision, something for 10 years' time when the economy will be different," he said. 
The Heathrow chief was speaking on Friday morning before what was expected to be one the busiest ever days at the London hub, with 136,000 departing passengers at the start of the summer break.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CHINA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORWAY (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               300 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 1:17 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote is not sole cause of easyJet's woes; Industrial action in France, political turbulence across Europe and multiple terrorist attacks have added to UK anxiety

BYLINE: Nils Pratley

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 794 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Running an airline has always been a volatile game. Fixed overheads are heavy and profit margins can be clobbered by events and sudden dips in demand. It has always been so. If easyJet's shareholders, after a wonderful run over the past half-decade, thought the old rules had been suspended, they have had to think again. The company, in common with most of its direct rivals, has lost a third of its stock market value since the EU referendum.
The vote for Brexit is not the sole cause, of course. The airline's chief executive, Carolyn McCall, started her review of the past quarter with a statement of the obvious. "The economic and operating environment has been difficult ..." You bet.
Two-thirds of easyJet's flights pass through France and the air traffic controllers there have been striking with extra enthusiasm this summer. Meanwhile, the Brussels terror attack and the Egyptair tragedy has been followed by the horror in Nice and the attempted coup in Turkey. All sap consumer confidence, at least for a while. EasyJet's revenue per seat was down 8.3% in the third quarter and is unlikely to improve meaningfully in the short term.
But is the UK's vote for Brexit really as significant as the share price suggests? UK consumers will have to adapt to a weaker pound, it's true. Some will be more inclined to take a holiday at home. And the exchange rate movement makes fuel, which is denominated in dollars and is the airline's biggest cost, more expensive. 
But investors' prime Brexit-related worry has been more basic: regulation. EasyJet, like Ryanair, is a child of the European common aviation area, which allows airlines to operate from any EU airport. If automatic flying rights are threatened, or become harder to secure, does the business model need a complete overhaul?
It's an uncertainty - but the threat is probably overstated. First, the most likely outcome of the UK's negotiation with the rest of the EU is that flying rights will continue as before. Continental airlines and airports are not lobbying for easyJet to be excluded. It is in neither side's interest to rip up a system that has produced clear benefits for consumers.
Second, easyJet has a plan B, which is to obtain an airline operator certificate in an EU country. That, in theory, ought to be a relatively painless process since easyJet has a large operation within the non-UK EU. It flies Spaniards to Germany, for example, and operates internal flights within France.
In practice, life could turn out to be complicated once the politicians sit at the bargaining table. But, as matters stand, the regulatory risks from Brexit should be slight. The current "difficult" operating climate, on the other hand, looks very real.
                   William Hill chief pays penalty for bookmaker's troubles                   
Gareth Davis is a no-nonsense chairman of the old school, which is one reason why nobody in the City is remotely bothered about him heading three companies simultaneously - bookmaker William Hill; FTSE 100 builders merchant Wolseley; and DS Smith, Europe's leading packaging company. 
James Henderson, chief executive of William Hill until Wednesday night, can now testify to what no-nonsense means. After only two years in the post, Henderson is out of his job. He is paying the penalty for William Hill's struggles with an upgrade of its online and mobile technology.
Is that harsh on a man with 31 years of service on the clock? Not really. There was no fresh profits warning on Thursday, to follow March's thumper, but a board is obliged to take a longer view.
William Hill had grown used to comfortable market leadership in the UK, but now sees its rivals combining dangerously. PaddyPower and Betfair have merged and Ladbrokes and Gala Coral are doing the same. If William Hill's online growth has stalled, its board can't afford to be sentimental.
                   Sports Direct's problems are extreme but not unique                   
Mike Ashley cannot grumble with the damning verdict of the business, innovation and skills select committee: he is accountable for the "appalling" working practices at Sports Direct. On his own admission, he is responsible for what goes on at a company he founded and still controls: either he should have known, or else he turned a blind eye.
But committee chair Iain Wright, in his article for this paper, is right to say the problems at Sports Direct may be an extreme example but are probably not unique. The so-called "gig" economy is stretching the link between employer and employee to breaking point. The growth in self-employed, temporary and zero-hours jobs has created the conditions for abuse of workers. If the trend conditions, Wright argues, the government will look again at the employment laws. Bring it on.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); TURKEY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); FRANCE (74%); BELGIUM (69%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               301 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 9, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Typical Tory member is older, richer Brexit voter; Demographics

BYLINE: Andrew Bounds

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 387 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The typical member of the Conservative party is older, richer and more likely to live in the south than the population as a whole, and most voted to leave the EU . But no one is sure exactly how many of them there are.
Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London, has studied Tory party members for several years but even he does not know how many members the party has - and therefore how many people will be eligible to select the next prime minister. His best estimate is 130,000-150,000. There are gaps in the data as some records are kept by constituency parties, some by Conservative Central Office.
"We know more than three-quarters are middle or upper class, ABC1 in social status," said Prof Bale. "Seven out of 10 are men and more than half are over 60." About 60 per cent live in the south "where the Tory vote is concentrated".
Although the majority voted for Britain to come out of the EU, that does not mean they will back Andrea Leadsom , who campaigned to leave the bloc, while Theresa May , the longstanding home secretary and her rival for the leadership, was a quiet Remainer. "[Tory members] prize stability and Leadsom is leading an insurgent campaign against the views of most MPs," he said.
According to Prof Bale, Conservative members cast their votes based on three factors: the ability to unite the party, proven leadership skills and the ability to win an election. On all three, he said, Mrs May would be ahead: "Theresa May should win. Our survey after the general election found that most were waiting to see what deal David Cameron got before deciding on the EU. They [Tory members] are not headbanging Eurosceptics."
He also said Conservative MPs had considerable influence in local parties. While Labour constituencies often have only a handful of party members, the Tories are concentrated in their heartlands. "The MPs are also more similar to the membership [than their Labour counterparts]," Prof Bale added, though the membership was slightly more socially conservative than the Westminster party, he said
Boris Johnson, whose leadership bid was torpedoed by his erstwhile ally Michael Gove, remained popular, but he would not swing many votes behind Mrs Leadsom after backing her. "I don't think Boris has much fairy dust left to sprinkle," said Prof Bale. Andrew Bounds


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               302 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 9, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Vroom: Brexit has me driving in the fast lane; How some Irish businesses are cashing in on weakening pound. GRAHAM CLIFFORD reports

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: REVIEW;NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1213 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Another day, another dollar... or in the case of those savvy Irish entrepreneurs capitalising on the weakening British pound, it's 'another euro'.
While the markets panic, the hedge funds freeze and Britain's political establishment scratch their collective heads, there are some on this side of the Irish Sea actually benefiting from the chaos that Brexit - or at least the realistic threat of it - brings. Every cloud...
True, the window of opportunity to use the weak pound to our advantage may be short, but every news bulletin of woe emanating from Britain brings a smile to some faces, and painful grimaces to others.
We've heard of convoys of giddy southern shoppers heading over the border into towns such as Newry with bulging wallets full of precious euro. Cousins of mine hit Harrods last weekend and nailed themselves a few bargains.
And Irish businesses which import from the UK are faring particularly well too.
At his desk in the Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Richard Smith, who runs UK Car Imports, barely has time to knock back his hot morning brew before the flood of emails into his inbox starts to emerge.
"In the run-up to the Brexit referendum, uncertainty as to how the British would vote had an impact on the pound and we benefited as a result. But when they actually did vote to leave, well, we've been inundated ever since," says Richard as he grabs a few minutes to talk on another busy day at the business he runs with colleague Jason Duffy. Since the referendum, enquiries have increased threefold and car sales have doubled.
Running as a banner across the company's homepage is the line: "Euro reaches all time highs vs Sterling, now is the time to buy!" "Motorists in Ireland can see the potential for substantial savings. At the moment, because of the weak pound, you could save (EURO)5,000 on a 2013 BMW 5 series, that's serious money, and sterling is falling all the time. I would say the average savings on a car now range between (EURO)1,000 and (EURO)5,000," explains Richard.
And as the uncertainty continues, it's expected that sales in the second half of the year will gather pace.
"Based on current levels of business, we'd expect to sell between 150 and 200 cars imported from the UK this year, which would see our company move to a new level," says Richard.
"At the moment there are two of us working here in Dublin, and we have a buyer in the UK, but we may well end up taking on one, if not two, additional people to deal with the increasing demand and level of enquiries."
The company charges a fixed fee of (EURO)295 to locate and buy each vehicle, regardless of the cost of the car so turnover is totally dependent on the volume of car sales.
While some in the Irish motor industry fear an influx of second-hand British cars will reduce the value of cars purchased in Ireland, leading to negative equity, Richard Smith believes it would be wrong to protect a sector when the consumer demands more choice and better value.
"It's an open commodity market, the Irish Government benefits from the VAT and VRT earned on sales, and we already import so many second-hand cars from Japan, so I can't really see any problem."
It's estimated that at least 50,000 cars are imported from the UK each year.
And UK Car Imports has actually invested in additional online advertising this year to coincide with the referendum in Britain, and is installing software to help visitors to their website calculate VRT costs on possible purchases.
"We're not naïve, we realise there is so much uncertainty and things will not remain the same forever. But for now, we'll do what we can to use this opportunity to expand the company and drive on," says Richard.
Indeed many Irish importers are Since the British referendum, car sales have doubled benefiting from the fluctuating money markets. Those wholesalers who import large volumes of British food and drink products are doing particularly well at present, and where possible are buying in bulk.
And while they are concerned by the potential for price hikes by their British suppliers, and the imposition of tariffs should the UK leave the single market, they are quietly doing rather well out of sterling's ailing health….for now.
The total value of imports from Britain into Ireland last year came to a staggering (EURO)19.9bn compared with export values from Ireland to the UK totalling (EURO)14.7bn.
But short-term gains and strengthened purchasing power may dwindle once reality bites on the other side of the Irish Sea.
"My hope is that any price hikes would be neutralised by the comparative strength of the euro against the pound," says Paul Maher, the MD of Four Corners, a Dublin-based business which imports and distributes craft beer and cider in Ireland.
Many of the products Four Corners sell here come from the UK and Paul, originally from Listowel, anticipates that before long we'll see the price of imported goods creeping up.
"Inevitably, the breweries which we buy from will see their own costs increasing. Many get their malt from the continent and beyond, and their hops from the United States.
"The weakness of sterling means it's going to cost so much more to brew their beers and that cost will be passed on. This is true of many sectors so while imports may seem less expensive now, I don't see that lasting too long," says Paul.
Most of the British-sourced stock Four Corners holds was purchased before the Brexit result. Paul is hoping prices remain as they are when he goes to reorder. If they do, then the company will increase their margins in the short term at least.
In business since 2004, Four Corners has grown steadily in tandem with the increased interest in craft beers amongst Irish consumers.
"We're building steadily, and of course we, like so many others, could have done without the volatility which Brexit brings. But in saying that, we know that even during the last downturn here in Ireland, more and more people turned to craft beer. We believe we can ride out this wave and go from strength to strength," explains Paul Maher.
Not surprisingly, the business and employers' organisation Ibec can see very little in the way of positive benefits from Brexit for Irish business. They described the result as "a major blow to Ireland" and Gerard Brady, a senior economist with Ibec, told Review: "There may be some marginal exchange rate benefits to companies which import heavily from the UK, but at an economy-wide level, this will have a pretty insignificant impact.
"In either case it will be more than offset by the challenges a weak sterling will bring to Irish exporters and the income effect of having an underperforming neighbour."
And he said the marginal exchange rate benefits may not always trickle through to the end consumer.
"Given the strong levels of price competition in Ireland and the structure of supply chains and pricing arrangements in larger firms, there will be limited impact of currency fluctuations on prices in the shortterm," he said.
Making hay while the sun shines may be the order of the day for Irish business as we keep our fingers crossed for stability in the medium to long term. But even those importers benefiting from the weakened pound accept that uncertainty helps no one. Strong leadership is required to lead us through the fog of money-market war.


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               303 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 9, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Weighing the costs of a lighter pound; FT BIG READ: BREXIT AND STERLING

BYLINE: Roger Blitz

SECTION: ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1497 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Everywhere Stephen Glancey looks, he finds Brexit and the sharp fall in the pound clouding his view. The chief executive of C&C Group, the makers of Magners cider and Tennent's lager, makes half its revenues in sterling but its profits are reported in euros. Those "will take a dip", he says.
Worse, he is worried that the weaker pound could leave customers with less money to spend on cider and beer. "There are signs the consumer has been holding back on spending since the referendum," says Mr Glancey.
C&C's currency worries illustrate the unsettling effects of Brexit and the resulting downward pressure on the pound . Companies say they are having to rip up their plans as consumer demand seems to have stalled. Some worry this spells recession for the UK.
It is a far different scenario the UK finds itself in than just over a fortnight ago. In the trading hour after polls closed on referendum night, sterling peaked at $1.50, its highest level since December, as pollsters pointed to a victory for the Remain camp.
The shock victory for Leave was felt in the immediate aftermath as foreign exchange traders rushed to sell the pound, graphically described this week by Bank of England governor Mark Carney as the "largest two-day fall against the dollar since floating exchange rates were reintroduced almost half a century ago".
A rally in sterling at the end of last week seemed to steady the markets. "There was the sense that we had the shock, but people were talking about the UK not actually exiting the EU, about Article 50 [the mechanism that starts the process to leave the EU] not being triggered," says Bilal Hafeez, currency strategist at Nomura.
But market fears returned this week and the pound resumed its decline, keeping it at 30-year lows close to $1.30. And its weakness has already done damage: Standard Life's real estate fund was the first of a procession to freeze redemptions this week, and companies like C&C began to warn of the after-effects from sterling's slide.
"This week felt like the week when sterling was really going to impact on the economy," Mr Hafeez says.
Moving downmarket 
Sudden currency moves tend to be the preserve of politically unstable developing economies. The joke among some foreign exchange analysts was that the basket of emerging markets currencies - a group that includes Brazil, Russia, Turkey and South Africa - would soon be welcoming a new member.
The sharp decline in the pound, while widely forecast as a potential consequence of Brexit, recalls previous precipitous falls in the currency.
George Magnus, senior economic adviser at UBS, notes that major devaluations of the pound were "the norm" in the era before the 1944 Bretton Woods system of fixed exchange rates. In the 1980s, the oil price crash brought sterling close to parity with the dollar, and sterling plummeted again after the UK's 1992 exit from Europe's exchange rate mechanism. Most recently, it fell sharply after the 2008 financial crisis.
During many of those earlier devaluations, the weaker pound reinforced, or fed, the notion that the country itself was in decline. For those worried about the consequences of Brexit on the UK economy, the post-referendum 13 per cent decline in sterling against the dollar is just a foretaste of what is to come.
"The market is a voting machine, and everybody is voting against the UK economy," says Mr Hafeez.
Some Brexiters argue that a weak pound will be beneficial to the UK, helping domestic businesses sell more goods abroad and improving Britain's balance of payments. Andrea Leadsom , the pro-Leave candidate for the Conservative party leadership, says a weaker pound was "good for exports and it makes inward investment more attractive. It means we may import less and buy more at home. These are all good things for our economy."
Despite Mr Glancey's other currency woes, he does see benefits for his Scottish export business. "We have had a number of enquiries in the last 10 days to export beer," he says, noting that European competitors should now find selling into the UK tougher.
Sterling's weakness will certainly have other economies looking on with envy. In a global economy of low growth and low interest rates, a weaker exchange rate promises competitive trading advantages. But deliberate targeting of the exchange rate, in a move associated with "currency wars", is now frowned on by the US and other G20 countries following their agreement in February to refrain from competitive devaluation. The UK has achieved it through the unwanted shock of Brexit.
A weaker pound proved desirable in the aftermath of the 1992 ERM debacle, Mr Magnus says. Interest rates were cut and sterling's fall helped improve the UK's balance of payments, spurring a recovery. What was dubbed "Black Wednesday" was later modified to "White Wednesday" by some economists.
"The doom-and-gloom prognosis turned out to be crying over spilled milk," he says. But Mr Magnus adds that the early 1990s was an era when sterling was already overvalued, China was emerging as a global world power, the IT boom was under way and the world was emerging from recession.
"They were very different times which bear no resemblance to the current situation," says Mr Magnus.
The current situation is one in which the UK finds one of its big structural weaknesses, its current account deficit, suddenly exposed by sterling's fall, raising questions about the country's capacity to continue to attract capital to help pay down the interest on that chronic debt.
Sterling is a good case study in the problem of running persistent deficits over long periods of time, says Matthew Cobon, fund manager at Columbia Threadneedle. "Sterling benefited a lot during the European crisis as a destination for safe-haven capital. It had also been one of the best European economies from a headline growth perspective in recent years," he says.
"When these financial flows go quickly into reverse, the emperor is discovered to have no clothes."
Mr Carney is preparing to reveal how he can mitigate Brexit's impact, with a rate cut looking likely. But most market commentators think the BoE will be unable to stem the pound's decline.
On top of the deficit problem are worries about the UK's access to exports markets, says Paul Lambert, head of currency at Insight Investment. "This is a potentially catastrophic position for the pound and the reason why we believe that most of the adjustment is likely to be in front of us and not behind us," Mr Lambert says.
'Competitive overnight' 
One key to understanding the pros and cons of a falling pound is to establish what is motivating its fall.
"If property funds are being liquidated and UK banks are declining massively, it's a reflection of higher risk in the UK," says Mr Hafeez. "But if it's a reflection of the Bank of England easing policy and the UK economy slowing, that's a good decline."
The only thing that is certain at present is uncertainty, and that is enough for currency strategists to revise down their sterling forecasts. The pound fell by 29 per cent in 1992-93 and by a third in 2007-08, so similar plunges would take the currency to between $1.13 and $1.22.
But Mr Magnus and Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, both go so far as to say that it was possible sterling could decline to parity with the dollar - uncharted territory.
Much depends on the UK's Brexit negotiations with the EU, says Mr El-Erian. "If the UK secures a comprehensive new free trade arrangement for goods and services, current levels will look very cheap," he says. "If, however, such an arrangement lags behind or is not comprehensive enough, then current levels would be seen as the new normal for sterling."
Companies are having to adjust rapidly to a new era of sterling devaluation. One that is ahead of the game is Gear4Music, an online instrument retailer, which sells in eight currencies.
Sterling's decline allowed it to knock down the price of an electric guitar from EUR130 pre-Brexit to EUR119. The result, says chief executive Andrew Wass, has been a big spike in European sales since the vote. "Brexit made us pretty competitive overnight," says Mr Wass.
As Mr Glancey is finding at C&C, there are pros and cons to sterling's big move. Gear4Music buys some of its products in dollars, while two-thirds of its sales are in the UK.
The way to manage sterling's convulsions is to react quickly to change. "I'm not worried. We have a very multicurrency business," says Mr Wass.
A flexible and nimble approach to Brexit is the recipe many believe the UK government needs in its negotiations with the EU. Those are precisely the ingredients that companies will need as the pound tumbles, but the outlook is treacherous.
"The pound may get low enough, or UK assets may get cheap enough, that foreigners will want to buy them again," says Mr Lambert. "But that journey is likely to involve a much weaker domestic economy. Ultimately, the country will have to decide whether that is a price worth paying."


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               304 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 9, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: You can be optimistic about Brexit, but you also have to be patient

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 975 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A tourist in Ireland asks a local how to get to Dublin, the old joke goes. "Well, sir," the Irishman replies. "I wouldn't start from here."
'' "  When it comes to Britain's present prospects, I wouldn't start from here, either. Leaving the European Union will hit growth, stretch family finances by driving up inflation, punch a hole in the deficit that leaves us cowering beneath the threat of future austerity, and cost jobs. But here is where we are and, in the best of British traditions, it's time for a stiff upper lip. How do we make the best of it, then? What positives can we take? In short, how do we become Brexit optimists?Optimism will require patience, as life after Brexit won't start easy. The economy most likely will stall for a year and jobs will be lost. HSBC reckons that inflation will reach 4 per cent by the end of 2017, throttling living standards. The initial difficulties will last as long as there is political paralysis.
Coming to the rescue will be the pound. It has a long history of doing so. A floating currency acts as an economic shock absorber, repricing countries so that they remain competitive. Greece learnt it the hard way. Unable to depreciate after crisis struck in 2010, Athens was made to devalue internally through wage and job cuts. Britain is in the midst of resetting without anything like as much pain.
The past has a favourable story to tell. Two of the last big currency depreciations were followed by a rebound in growth. By the time James Callaghan asked for a £3.9 billion International Monetary Fund loan in 1976, the pound had fallen from $2 to $1.65 in only nine months. The following three years are remembered for the "winter of discontent", but the economy performed soundly, growing by 2.8 per cent on average before the oil price shock in late 1979.
Similarly, growth powered ahead after Britain's ejection from the Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992. The recovery after Black Wednesday was largely down to a halving in interest rates in a mere four months, but net trade delivered a 1.5 percentage point improvement within two years as exporters used the cheap pound to cut prices.
In the late 1970s, too, British exports enjoyed a revival. The trade channel is the most obvious positive to take. Sterling has fallen 13 per cent against the dollar since June 23 and probably will drop further. Even without Brexit, a sterling devaluation was long overdue. In a paper in February, the IMF said the strength of the pound was causing economic distortions. By its estimate, sterling was 15 per cent overvalued then.
Exporters can clean up in one of two ways. They can undercut the competition or take the currency gain in higher profits. Both ought to draw in investment and reboot Britain's factories. After the 25 per cent depreciation in 2008, Britain's trade deficit halved to its lowest level in a decade.
It was that trend that gave the government the confidence to commit to rebalancing the economy in 2011, a promise that hasn't just been broken but eviscerated. Britain has become more dependent on household spending and services than ever as manufacturing has tumbled back into recession. Yet if the past is any guide, sterling's fall will lift factories, as well as domestic travel operators, although it may take two years.
Rebalancing the economy is more urgent than ever now. Nick Clegg claimed that the Brexit vote was a "howl of rage" by the disillusioned masses "left behind" by globalisation. Regional data bears the argument out. Since 1997, Britain's gains have gone disproportionately to London. Output per head in the capital was 1.73 times the national average in 2014, up from 1.6 times in 1997. In every other region bar the northeast, output per head has shrunk against the national average. In the northeast it has risen from 0.73 times to only 0.74 times.
Britain's recovery since the financial crisis has been, to a large degree, the story of one city. In the five years to 2014, London's output expanded by 29 per cent. Bristol was a distant second, with 19 per cent growth. London on its own accounts for almost a quarter of GDP today.
If the disenfranchised in Britain's heartlands are to share in the spoils, a factory and tourism revival triggered by sterling's collapse is as good a hope as any. Slower growth for the UK as a whole may be an acceptable price to pay if it means the regions are catching up, even if London weakens.
Policy can support regional rebalancing. Cuts in interest rates and quantitative easing, which may start next week, will reduce government borrowing costs.
Cheap debt could be used to fund more homes, schools and hospitals to address the pressure on public services that has unfairly mutated into anti-migrant anger.
A new government could admit that migrants paid their way, but Westminster chose not to spend the money on public services. With a new programme in place, it could push through a liberal points system that lets 200,000 into the country but puts restrictions around low-skilled labour. The skilled immigrants would boost productivity, helping us all.
House prices would edge down, thanks to slower growth and a state housebuilding programme to combat chronic undersupply. Easing house prices would redistribute wealth from the old to the young and see household debt levels drift lower. At the same time, higher inflation might work its way into pay packets. With higher inflation, debt would be more manageable - both for households and the state. Of course, failure to agree basic terms of trade with Europe would undermine the sterling effect.
Productivity could stagnate as businesses delayed investment. Spending could tumble for longer as households feel poorer and house prices dip. As the deficit rises and foreign investors pull out, borrowing costs could escalate.
It's not easy being a Brexit optimist, but we can try.


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); ATHENS, GREECE (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); IRELAND (73%); GREECE (58%); Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               305 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 9, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: You can be optimistic about Brexit, but you also have to be patient; Philip Aldrick is Economics Editor of The Times

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: Pg. 47

LENGTH: 974 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: "A tourist in Ireland asks a local how to get to Dublin, the old joke goes. "Well, sir," the Irishman replies. "I wouldn't start from here."
When it comes to Britain's present prospects, I wouldn't start from here, either. Leaving the European Union will hit growth, stretch family finances by driving up inflation, punch a hole in the deficit that leaves us cowering beneath the threat of future austerity, and cost jobs. But here is where we are and, in the best of British traditions, it's time for a stiff upper lip. How do we make the best of it, then? What positives can we take? In short, how do we become Brexit optimists?
Optimism will require patience, as life after Brexit won't start easy. The economy most likely will stall for a year and jobs will be lost. HSBC reckons that inflation will reach 4 per cent by the end of 2017, throttling living standards. The initial difficulties will last as long as there is political paralysis.
Coming to the rescue will be the pound. It has a long history of doing so. A floating currency acts as an economic shock absorber, repricing countries so that they remain competitive. Greece learnt it the hard way. Unable to depreciate after crisis struck in 2010, Athens was made to devalue internally through wage and job cuts. Britain is in the midst of resetting without anything like as much pain.
The past has a favourable story to tell. Two of the last big currency depreciations were followed by a rebound in growth. By the time James Callaghan asked for a £3.9 billion International Monetary Fund loan in 1976, the pound had fallen from $2 to $1.65 in only nine months. The following three years are remembered for the "winter of discontent", but the economy performed soundly, growing by 2.8 per cent on average before the oil price shock in late 1979.
Similarly, growth powered ahead after Britain's ejection from the Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992. The recovery after Black Wednesday was largely down to a halving in interest rates in a mere four months, but net trade delivered a 1.5 percentage point improvement within two years as exporters used the cheap pound to cut prices.
In the late 1970s, too, British exports enjoyed a revival. The trade channel is the most obvious positive to take. Sterling has fallen 13 per cent against the dollar since June 23 and probably will drop further. Even without Brexit, a sterling devaluation was long overdue. In a paper in February, the IMF said the strength of the pound was causing economic distortions. By its estimate, sterling was 15 per cent overvalued then.
Exporters can clean up in one of two ways. They can undercut the competition or take the currency gain in higher profits. Both ought to draw in investment and reboot Britain's factories. After the 25 per cent depreciation in 2008, Britain's trade deficit halved to its lowest level in a decade.
It was that trend that gave the government the confidence to commit to rebalancing the economy in 2011, a promise that hasn't just been broken but eviscerated. Britain has become more dependent on household spending and services than ever as manufacturing has tumbled back into recession. Yet if the past is any guide, sterling's fall will lift factories, as well as domestic travel operators, although it may take two years.
Rebalancing the economy is more urgent than ever now. Nick Clegg claimed that the Brexit vote was a "howl of rage" by the disillusioned masses "left behind" by globalisation. Regional data bears the argument out. Since 1997, Britain's gains have gone disproportionately to London. Output per head in the capital was 1.73 times the national average in 2014, up from 1.6 times in 1997. In every other region bar the northeast, output per head has shrunk against the national average. In the northeast it has risen from 0.73 times to only 0.74 times.
Britain's recovery since the financial crisis has been, to a large degree, the story of one city. In the five years to 2014, London's output expanded by 29 per cent. Bristol was a distant second, with 19 per cent growth. London on its own accounts for almost a quarter of GDP today.
If the disenfranchised in Britain's heartlands are to share in the spoils, a factory and tourism revival triggered by sterling's collapse is as good a hope as any. Slower growth for the UK as a whole may be an acceptable price to pay if it means the regions are catching up, even if London weakens.
Policy can support regional rebalancing. Cuts in interest rates and quantitative easing, which may start next week, will reduce government borrowing costs.
Cheap debt could be used to fund more homes, schools and hospitals to address the pressure on public services that has unfairly mutated into anti-migrant anger.
A new government could admit that migrants paid their way, but Westminster chose not to spend the money on public services. With a new programme in place, it could push through a liberal points system that lets 200,000 into the country but puts restrictions around low-skilled labour. The skilled immigrants would boost productivity, helping us all.
House prices would edge down, thanks to slower growth and a state housebuilding programme to combat chronic undersupply. Easing house prices would redistribute wealth from the old to the young and see household debt levels drift lower. At the same time, higher inflation might work its way into pay packets. With higher inflation, debt would be more manageable - both for households and the state. Of course, failure to agree basic terms of trade with Europe would undermine the sterling effect.
Productivity could stagnate as businesses delayed investment. Spending could tumble for longer as households feel poorer and house prices dip. As the deficit rises and foreign investors pull out, borrowing costs could escalate.
It's not easy being a Brexit optimist, but we can try."


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); ATHENS, GREECE (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); IRELAND (73%); GREECE (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               306 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 9, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Your Brexit questions on property and savings; Q&A

BYLINE: FT Money writers

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1058 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As FT readers digest the Brexit vote , their thoughts have naturally turned to what the referendum means for their personal finances. We put the issues that were most troubling them to experts.
My husband and I plan to buy a property in London. Should we wait a few more months to see if house prices drop?
Even before the Brexit vote, the London market was slowing, with prices for the most expensive central London homes down by 8 per cent since mid-2014, according to estate agent Savills.
That trend is not likely to change, says Richard Donnell, research director at housing market analyst Hometrack, but you should not expect a bargain if you wait.
"Greater uncertainty will take the heat out of the price rises and reduce the level of demand," he says. "The problem is there are unlikely to be many forced sellers who will take a big discount but those looking to sell will be more open to offers."
The type of homes that attract investors are more likely to fall in price in the face of tax changes and uncertainty - but family housing will remain in demand. "If your dream home comes on the market next weekend, don't wait. By the time you get to exchange the outlook will hopefully become clearer."
We own a buy-to-let property. Our two-year fixed term mortgage ends in August. With equity of about 60 per cent, we hope to secure a fixed-term deal for five years at a lower rate. Are cheap mortgages likely to continue?
One silver lining of Brexit - for now - is that mortgage rates remain very competitive as Bank of England base rates are expected to spend even longer at their historic lows and may even fall. Lenders are therefore vying to win customers with cheaper rates and lower fees.
Aaron Strutt, product director at mortgage broker Trinity Financial, says there are some attractive five-year fixed-rate deals available below 3 per cent if you are looking for long-term security on mortgage repayments.
But the first step, he says, is to call your existing lender and ask them what they will offer you to stay. "As you are at low loan-to-value, you should have the pick of any existing customer rates. As your rate is about to expire you may well have a period on the standard variable rate if you decide to shop around and remortgage to another lender," he says.
Should I convert my sterling-denominated savings into another currency?
Having seen the value of the pound plunge since the vote , many readers worry that it will be vulnerable to further shocks in the months and years ahead. Grant Lewis, of Daiwa Securities, observes that the pound recovered from an initial drop when Britain fell out of the European Exchange Rate mechanism in 1992. He adds, however, that: "the trough (which was around 30 cents lower than where the initial rally occurred) was not reached until five months later".
This does not mean the average UK saver should purchase dollars. Those who live and plan to retire in Britain will mostly buy sterling-denominated goods and assets.
For people interested in currency investment, however, John Woods, the chief investment officer at Credit Suisse, believes south-east Asian currencies could benefit if Brexit slows the global economy.
Mr Woods argues the US central bank may lower interest rates to contain any damage. That could reverse the trend of traders selling out of the currencies of Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand as US interest rates rose, believing this made the higher-risk returns of emerging markets less attractive.
"Lower-for-longer US rates would ease pressure on south-east Asian currencies and provide room for policy easing," Mr Woods says.
Is it likely that the state pension will no longer be uprated for pensioners living in the EU?
Hundreds of thousands of Brits who have retired in the eurozone are at risk of losing the inflation proofing on their state pension following Brexit.
Under existing rules, anyone who retires to a country within the European Economic Area has their state pension uprated by the "triple lock", which sees the state pension rise each year by the highest of consumer price inflation (CPI), average earnings or 2.5 per cent.
This uprating for expats is made possible by EU regulations so there is no certainty that it would continue after Brexit, when the UK is no longer bound by Brussels.
There is also a wider question mark over the triple lock itself. Before the referendum, David Cameron, prime minister, warned that "special protection" for the policy would be under threat if there were a "big black hole" in the economy following a Brexit vote.
What asset classes can I invest in to shield my wealth from the impact of Brexit, and what should I avoid?
In the days since the referendum result, the more internationally focused FTSE 100 has bounced back , whereas the more domestically focused FTSE 250 index has struggled to regain losses.
UK banks, housebuilders and retailers were among the hardest hit, but in the week following the vote 100 company directors in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 bought shares worth £14.3m. However, financial advisers and wealth managers have warned investors not to move their portfolio around too much amid the current market volatility.
Too much money in any single asset class would be a bad idea at the moment, said Darius McDermott, adviser at Chelsea Financial, but short-duration bonds, cash and absolute return funds might be a good idea.
If you have stocks in your portfolio, be aware of the differences in performance between the two FTSE indices.
"Big bets could pay off, but if preserving capital is your remit, don't get carried away by short-term market euphoria," warns Mr McDermott.
Rash readjustments to portfolios bring the danger of exposing yourself to other risks. "We mustn't lose sight of the risk of a lancing of the Chinese credit bubble or a sharp devaluation of the yuan, nor indeed the ramifications of a Trump victory," says Jason Hollands, managing director at Tilney Bestinvest.
If you do want to adjust, making sure your portfolio is well diversified geographically is key. Investing in overseas equities means your portfolio is less vulnerable to further declines in sterling, says Eric Lonergan, multi-asset fund manager at M&G Investments.
 Reporting by Lilah Raptopoulos, Naomi Rovnick, Josephine Cumbo, James Pickford and Aime Williams. If you have a Brexit financial query, email us at: money@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               307 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 10, 2016 Sunday 12:44 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bank of England considers interest rate cut to tackle Brexit crisis; Monetary Policy Committee discussing a range of options, which include keeping rates on hold or slashing them to zero

BYLINE: Katie Allen

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 610 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Bank of England will consider the first interest rate cut for more than seven years this week, as it seeks to contain the economic fallout from the Brexit vote. 
Some City economists predict that with consumer confidence battered and businesses nervous about spending and hiring, the Bank will want to shore up sentiment by reducing interest rates further from a record low of 0.5%.
                     The Bank's governor Mark Carney has dropped heavy hints of a summer rate cut but he and fellow rate setters may want to see more evidence of the Brexit vote's impact before acting. The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will announce its decision on Thursday at midday and experts say it has a range of options - including doing nothing for now.
Forecasts for what policymakers will vote to do in the wake of the referendum vary from keeping rates on hold to slashing them by 50 basis points to zero. Some say the committee will go for a smaller 25 basis point cut, leaving itself the option to cut again in August when it also publishes new economic forecasts and will have a better sense of how the EU referendum result has impacted the UK.
Carney laid the groundwork for a rate cut in a carefully orchestrated market intervention a week after the Brexit vote wrongfooted investors. Speaking as the pound was plumbing 31-year lows and shares in banks and housebuilders tumbled, Carney said his personal view was that "some monetary policy easing will likely be required over the summer". 
That marked a complete turnaround from the pre-referendum pattern of Bank policymakers seeking to guide markets on when rates might rise again, after more than seven years at 0.5%. Official borrowing costs were l ast cut in March 2009 when the UK was in recession and they have been on hold ever since.
Philip Shaw, an economist at City bank Investec, said: "This state of policy inaction is about to change. The question... has become not if the MPC will ease but 'what, how much and when'."
 The Bank has also taken steps to release up to £150bn worth of lending to households and businesses by relaxing regulatory requirements on the banking sector. But with interest rates already at record lows and following a money-printing exercise, known as quantitative easing, questions remain over how much ammunition the Bank has left to help the economy. 
                       Economists at investment bank JP Morgan said: "A difficult issue lies in the background. Can an independent central bank like the BoE/MPC state publicly that it does not believe it has the tools to deliver on its mandate?"
                     A poll of economists by Reuters last week suggested the Bank would choose to wait until August to cut interest rates or use other monetary policy tools such as quantitative easing, where the Bank pumps money into the financial system by acquiring bonds from financial institutions in the hope that they will put the proceeds back into the UK economy.
Nearly two-thirds of 52 economists polled said interest rates would be held steady on Thursday. Seventeen predicted a cut to 0.25% and another two said rates would be slashed to zero.
In his speech debating imminent rate cuts, Carney said that the economy was already showing signs of strain. He also highlighted the legacy of previous shocks that meant businesses and households were suffering from "economic post-traumatic stress disorder". 
Business and consumer surveys suggest that confidence has dropped in the wake of the referendum. 
A closely watched consumer confidence index from market researchers GfK last week recorded the biggest drop in sentiment for 21 years, following the Brexit vote.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               308 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 10, 2016 Sunday 8:15 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: no second EU referendum despite e-petition, says government; Statement in response to petition signed by more than 4.1m people says referendum was 'once in a generation' vote

BYLINE: Nicola Slawson

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 406 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The hopes of more than 4.1 million people who signed a petition calling for a second referendum on the EU have faded, after a response from the government saying it was a "once in a generation vote".
Parliament must consider all petitions that reach a threshold of 100,000 votes for a debate and, although the decision has yet to consider the motion for a debate, the Foreign Office responded to the signatories by email on Friday evening, pointing out that over 33 million have had their say. 
Referring to the wording of the petition, which asks for a second vote to be held because the vote to leave did not surpass 60% of the vote and the turnout was less than 75%, the government response states that the European Union Referendum Act did not include rules about minimum turnout.
The statement said: "The act was scrutinised and debated in parliament during its passage and agreed by both the House of Commons and the House of Lords. The act set out the terms under which the referendum would take place, including provisions for setting the date, franchise and the question that would appear on the ballot paper. The act did not set a threshold for the result or for minimum turnout. 
"The prime minister and government have been clear that this was a once in a generation vote and, as the prime minister has said, the decision must be respected. We must now prepare for the process to exit the EU and the government is committed to ensuring the best possible outcome for the British people in the negotiations." 
The petition, which was started by leave activist William Oliver Healey in May, when polls suggested remain would win, has been the subject of controversy after it was discovered that thousands of signatures were fake. 
The petitions committee's own statement underneath reads that the decision on the petition was to be postponed until 12 July. It read: "The committee has decided to defer its decision on this petition until the government digital service has done all it can to verify the signatures on the petition. We have already had to remove 77,000 fraudulent signatures. 
"The committee wishes to make clear that, although it may choose to schedule a debate on this petition in due course, it only has the power to schedule debates in Westminster Hall - the second debating chamber of the House of Commons.
"Debates in Westminster Hall do not have the power to change the law, and could not trigger a second referendum."


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               309 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 10, 2016 Sunday 12:04 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: National security put at risk by lack of Brexit plan, say MPs and peers; Failure to plan before referendum vote showed 'political interests were deemed more important than national security'

BYLINE: Mark Townsend Observer home affairs editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 578 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's national security strategy is being eroded by a failure to plan for Brexit, MPs and peers have warned, in a scathing assessment of the UK's potential to defend itself from future threats.
The joint parliamentary committee on the national security strategy (NCS) said the lack of a backup plan suggested the "prioritisation of political interests above national security" at a time when Europe is facing sizeable security challenges, including an "emerging domestic terrorist threat" and the migration crisis.
The MPs and peers on the committee also warned that the capabilities of the armed forces could be undermined because Brexit might see the defence budget reduced in real terms.
Highlighting analysis showing that Brexit would induce significant falls in GDP, the report said that even if the new government were to commit to spending at least 2% of GDP on defence, a stagnant or contracting UK economy might mean the defence budget being notably reduced in real terms.
It would, it concluded, challenge David Cameron's announcement last year of £12bn extra defence spending. 
The committee had expected the government's strategic defence and security review (SDSR) unveiled last November to articulate what action would be required in the short term following a Brexit vote. The failure to do so demonstrated that "political interests were deemed more important than national security", members said.
"If the national security strategy is to be credible, it must prioritise the maintenance of national security above political expediency," the committee said. "Planning for a new security review, starting with a detailed analysis of the changed security environment, should begin immediately."
When setting out the government's strategic defence review last year, Cameron announced plans for investment in two 5,000-strong "strike brigades" that could be deployed in the event of a major terrorist attack, additional F-35 jets, maritime patrol aircraft and high-altitude drones.
During the announcement, Cameron said ministers wanted to replace the Trident nuclear deterrent, but the estimated cost had risen and completion been put back until "the early 2030s".
On Saturday, the prime minister revealed that there would be a House of Commons vote on the renewal of the Trident nuclear deterrent on 18 July.
The Brexit-related concerns arrive on top of the committee's existing scepticism about the government's ability to fulfil the requirements of its defence planning. The committee thinks it "questionable" that future projections for military capability will meet the national security challenges faced by the UK.
The report says that despite the government's commitment to maintain the size of the regular army at 82,000 and to increase the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force by a total of 700 regular personnel, the manpower fielded by the UK armed forces is inadequate bearing in mind the "range, complexity and potential concurrency" of tasks expected of them. 
In addition, a planned 30% reduction in the number of MoD civilian staff could undermine the effective use of the state-of-the-art equipment to be purchased as a result of last year's strategic defence review. 
It recommends that the government should consider creating a ministerial post within the Cabinet Office with oversight of national security. This would strengthen the leadership on national security at the centre of government, a function which is currently fulfilled by the prime minister.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               310 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 10, 2016 Sunday 7:58 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The Guardian view on the Act of Union: time to reimagine the United Kingdom; New ideas for a federal relationship between England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales should get a proper debate going about the post-Brexit union

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 667 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: In the heat of the EU referendum argument, too little attention was paid to the consequences of Brexit for the relationship between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. In the aftermath of the vote, most minds have been focused on Britain's relations with Europe and turmoil in British domestic politics. Once again, the impact of Brexit on our shared union of nations has been forced to play a distant and sometimes scarcely audible second fiddle.
In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, unsurprisingly, there is more awareness than in England of the impact that Brexit may have on the union. This might take the shape of a second independence referendum in Scotland. There might be new border arrangements between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. But it is perhaps now beginning to dawn on the English too that Brexit threatens to unbalance and reshape a Britain out of the EU.
The union, in short, is in danger of breaking apart in a fit of absence of mind. Of course, challenges to the constitutional and political cohesion of the United Kingdom long predate the vote on Europe. Devolution has been an issue in Scotland and Wales for more than 40 years. Britain as a whole might have voted to leave the EU, but the different results in the different nations again underline, as the 2015 election also did, that the Britishness of politics may be a thing of the past. Ours is becoming more than ever a disunited kingdom.
The way that these issues now play out will depend on the imagination and good faith that the public realm in all four parts of the UK can bring to bear on them. If past experience is a guide, the process will otherwise largely be both ad hoc and uneven. The strongest national and regional voices will demand most and get most from the UK government, while the least assertive will get least. If real care is not taken, Scotland, in particular, could decide that the time has come to become an independent nation, with huge implications for the whole of Britain.
 Related:  Brexit vote paves way for federal union to save UK, says all-party group
It does not have to be this way. An all-party group of present and former members of the House of Lords and others have recently been working on a different approach. Under the aegis of the Constitution Reform Group and convened by the former Conservative minister Lord Salisbury, this group, which includes crossbench as well as political peers, has drawn up a new draft Act of Union, in the form of a parliamentary bill, which will be published this week.
The fundamental rethink at the bill's heart is that the peoples of the four nations should decide to pool their sovereignty in a new United Kingdom for a set of specified purposes, while retaining the power to decide for themselves on all other issues. The shared purposes might include, subject to agreement, the constitutional monarch as head of state, national security, foreign affairs, defence, human rights, immigration, the supreme court, the currency, a central bank, some taxation powers, and the civil service. Options, including a separate parliament or a more evolutionary city and regional approach, are proposed for England. The current House of Lords might be replaced in various ways. But the relationship would be explicitly federal.
This bill is far from the last word on the best way to reshape the UK. It is one of several initiatives seeking to give the different parts of the country as much power as they jointly choose, while pooling sovereignty in a new and freely created federal-style union. It is bottom-up, rather than the top-down approach that has created much of the current imbalance and constitutional stress. It is potentially a stronger and more consensual model than the existing one. It is a possible basis for a much-needed shared discussion across the UK about a more appropriate and modern form of union based on popular sovereignty. The Guardian has championed these issues for long years. Now their time has come.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); SCOTLAND (94%); WALES (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); IRELAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               311 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Analysts cut US bank earnings forecasts; Brexit vote blamed for expected fall in Q2 earnings per share for the biggest banks

BYLINE: Ben McLannahan, Alistair Gray

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 462 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Wall Street analysts have taken an axe to profit forecasts for the biggest US banks, fearing that the US Federal Reserve - spooked by sluggish job growth and the UK vote to leave the European Union - will hold off on pushing up interest rates.
After the Fed's first post-crisis bump in rates last December, many analysts had been counting on more increases to help boost bank earnings throughout this year and next.
But with JPMorgan Chase due to start the second-quarter reporting season this week, analysts now believe those assumptions look too bullish because of market turmoil unleashed first by slumping oil prices and then the UK's EU referendum.
Analysts at Credit Suisse have stripped out any expectation of higher rates from its estimates for US banks' profits in 2016 and 2017. 
Muted outlook 
Barclays and Morgan Stanley have also docked forecasts, noting that investors put the chances of a rate rise from the Fed this year at about 20 per cent, down from about 75 per cent before the Brexit vote.  
Just one of the big six US banks - Wells Fargo - is now expected to make a double-digit return on equity this year, according to consensus forecasts.
Even after a brighter US jobs report on Friday, benchmark bond yields barely moved from levels close to historic lows, said Ken Usdin, an analyst at Jefferies in New York. 
"We see macro-related downward [earnings] revisions driving the bus for a while," he said.
The muted outlook for the banks continues a general trend since the financial crisis, in which stubbornly low rates and much higher capital requirements have sapped returns for investors.
Second-quarter earnings are expected to be subdued, with drops in fees from trading and investment banking largely offsetting the benefits of a pick-up in fees from mortgage originations.
Mergers 
Analysts at Morgan Stanley expect year-on-year falls in quarterly earnings per share at Bank of America (-27 per cent), Citigroup (-23 per cent), JPMorgan Chase (-8 per cent) and Wells Fargo (-2 per cent). Only Goldman Sachs, which took a big litigation charge in the same period a year ago, is likely to see an increase. Management teams will probably guide down expectations for full-year results, said Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley's lead analyst, in view of the "pessimistic" outlook for rates.  
Some analysts are braced for further compression as long as the Fed does not raise rates.
Jason Goldberg, lead analyst at Barclays in New York, expects the biggest banks to take "a harder line" on costs, while smaller banks may consider the more radical option of mergers.
"I think consolidation is a secular trend," he said. "The number of banks [in the US] halved in the last 20 years, and they'll halve again in the next 20." - Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2016


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: NEW YORK, USA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               312 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 10:43 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Boeing's jobs pledge shows UK 'is open for business', says Cameron; PM, at opening of Farnborough airshow, praises US group's move to double number of UK workers amid Brexit 'uncertainties'

BYLINE: Jessica Elgot

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 366 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Boeing is to double the number of people it employs in the UK and will build a new £100m facility, a move which David Cameron said was a sign of confidence in the economy despite uncertainties over Brexit.
The prime minister also announced that the UK had signed a contract after last week's Nato summit to buy nine new Boeing maritime patrol aircraft. A spokesman said this was "a clear sign of the UK delivering on its pledge to maintain defence spending at 2% of GDP".
The US manufacturer will build its new facility for P-8A Poseidon military aircraft at RAF Lossiemouth in Moray, and make the UK its base for defence exports to Europe and the Middle East, as well as for the maintenance and training for its defence fixed-wing and rotary platforms. 
The announcement by the aerospace group at Farnborough international airshow in Hampshire on Monday is expected to result in a further 2,000 jobs across the UK, including 100 at the new base. 
Cameron, who was speaking at the opening of the airshow, said Boeing's announcement "shows the UK is open for business, and attractive for investment".
 Related:  Cancellations and delays expected in airliner market at Farnborough
He added: "Whatever uncertainties our country faces, I want the message to go out loud and clear: the UK will continue to lead the world in both civil and defence aerospace. We aren't just open for investment; we are a place the global aerospace industry wants to do business - as Boeing's long-term partnership with the UK proves."
Boeing's chairman, Dennis Muilenburg, said: "Boeing is committed to the UK government's prosperity agenda and we share the goals of enhanced economic growth that the prime minister has set out to us." 
The company insisted throughout the EU referendum campaign that it would not move its business from the UK, saying in a statement in March that its decision to make the UK its European headquarters was "entirely separate to the EU or Brexit debate, on which Boeing is neutral". 
The government also announced on Monday that there would be a new £365m investment in UK aerospace research and development, jointly funded by industry and government, as part of the Aerospace Growth Partnership. 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               313 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could revive the Tiger

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 161 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Although the unexpected outcome of the Brexit vote will likely have negative consequences for the UK and most of
Europe, it may well benefit the Irish economy. London now has 250 foreign banks and some 700,000 people are employed in the financial services sector. What would be the impact if even 10pc moved to Ireland?
Many banks and other firms that are presently in London may desire to relocate to a country still in the EU.
American, Middle Eastern and East
Asian businessmen may be reluctant or unable to rapidly learn French or
German. Some may fear the risk of terrorism and be unwilling to move to
France, Germany, or Belgium.
As an English-speaking, relatively safe country, Ireland might attract many of these firms. Also, as the 'remain' option was supported by 56pc of voters there, it is possible Northern Ireland might in future leave the UK and reunite with the
Republic of Ireland.
The Celtic Tiger may well rise again.
Charles S Shaver, MD
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (52%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); BELGIUM (73%); CANADA (72%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               314 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit is a golden opportunity for stronger US-UK trade ties, says Osborne; Chancellor to meet senior Wall Street figures on first of missions to major economies to discuss ramifications of Britain's vote to leave EU

BYLINE: Rob Davies

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 439 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The chancellor, George Osborne, will urge US investors not to turn their backs on Britain as he begins a world tour aimed at building new trade ties outside the European Union.
Osborne will meet senior figures from Wall Street in New York on Monday during the first of several missions to major economies to discuss the ramifications of Brexit on trade links.
"Britain and the US have been at the forefront of open trade in the last 200 years and pursuing a stronger relationship with our biggest trading partners is now a top priority," the chancellor said.
 Related:  Brexit fallout - the economic impact in six key charts
Osborne hopes to use the New York visit to present the referendum vote as a "golden opportunity" for US investors to forge an even stronger relationship with Britain, the Treasury said in a statement.
The US is already the largest single destination for British goods, making up 17% of exports at a value of £88bn in 2014.
"While Britain's decision to leave the EU clearly presents economic challenges, we now have to do everything we can to make the UK the most attractive place in the world to do business," said Osborne.
The chancellor has already pledged to cut the corporation tax rate to 15% or lower in a bid to boost the country's attractiveness to foreign firms. He said his "message to the world is that Britain may be leaving the EU but we are not quitting the world".
"We will continue to be a beacon for free trade, democracy and security, more open to the world than ever."
Osborne's New York trip begins a gruelling schedule of trade missions, with the chancellor set to lead one to Singapore and China next week.
He will also welcome the US treasury secretary, Jack Lew, to London this week, meet the heads of Britain's biggest banks, and travel to Brussels for discussions with other EU finance ministers.
Last week the chancellor met Chinese officials in London, including ambassador Lio Xiaming, for talks about future trade relations ahead of the G20 finance ministers' meeting in Chengdu later this month. He also spoke to Paul Ryan, speaker of the US House of Representatives, twice last week, according to the Treasury.
The business secretary, Sajid Javid, is also making overtures to major economies about potential trade deals, travelling to India last week for preliminary talks with government officials.
The discussions kicked off a schedule of trips to the US, China, Japan and South Korea over the next few months.
The government has said it plans to hire up to 300 staff in a bid to address a shortage of trade negotiators capable of forging closer economic ties with dozens of other countries.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               315 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit muddies waters for £1.3bn tidal project; Energy

BYLINE: Andrew Ward, Energy Editor

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 488 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Political uncertainty in Westminster is raising fresh doubts over a £1.3bn tidal power project in Swansea Bay, as backers of the scheme step up efforts to win government approval.
A review by the Department of Energy and Climate Change of the prospects for tidal power generation in the UK is due to report this autumn. Advocates hope it will recommend approving the Swansea plan as a first step to developing larger schemes around the British coast.
But Keith Clarke , who chairs Tidal Lagoon Power, the company behind the Swansea project , said he was worried the decision could be delayed by political fallout from the vote to leave the EU.
"Any political decision at the moment has a degree of uncertainty, if only on timing, because we do not know who is going to be prime minister," he told the Financial Times. "My concern is that people are too distracted to get on with the business of government."
Amber Rudd, energy secretary, granted planning permission for the Swansea scheme last year, but the level of government subsidy for its electricity must be agreed before financing and construction can proceed.
The project is designed to produce enough power for 155,000 homes from 16 underwater turbines built into a six-mile, U-shaped seawall enclosing part of Swansea Bay. Tidal Lagoon Power has plans for five larger schemes in Wales, Somerset and Cumbria which could together meet up to 8 per cent of UK electricity demand.
Supporters have for decades evangelised about the energy potential of tidal power as coal-fired power stations are phased out. Britain's coastline has some of the world's biggest tidal ranges and these, unlike wind and solar power, are reliable and predictable.
Concerns over high construction costs and disruption to shipping and wildlife have scuppered previous plans to build a barrage across the Severn estuary but Tidal Lagoon Power believes its smaller schemes are more realistic.
The company, set up by Mark Shorrock , a renewable energy entrepreneur, will publish research this week which it says shows that tidal-generated electricity is competitive with rival power sources in terms of cost.
Over its expected 120-year lifespan, the support mechanisms required to make the Swansea scheme viable would cost consumers £25.78 per megawatt hour - the same as for new nuclear plants. The cost would fall to £7.80 for the larger Cardiff scheme, lower than for any other form of renewable energy.
The projections, independently validated by the Poyry consultancy, are unlikely to persuade sceptics who say upfront construction costs are too great. But the Swansea scheme has strong cross-party backing in Westminster - especially among Welsh MPs attracted by its promise of 1,900 construction jobs and a big demand for steel at a time when the local steel industry is in crisis.
A new all-party parliamentary group on marine energy is due to be launched on Wednesday with the aim of galvanising support.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SWANSEA, WALES (94%); CARDIFF, WALES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); WALES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               316 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: parliament should make ultimate decision on whether to leave EU, barristers say; More than 1,000 barristers sign letter to PM arguing referendum result is advisory as it did not set a threshold for leaving EU

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 692 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: More than a thousand barristers have signed a letter to the prime minister urging him to allow parliament to decide whether the UK should leave the European Union. 
The letter describes the referendum result as only advisory because it was based on "misrepresentations of fact and promises that could not be delivered".
The barristers argue that there must be a free vote in parliament before article 50 of the EU's Lisbon treaty can be triggered - paving the way for the UK's withdrawal.
The initiative has been coordinated by prominent barristers in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland including more than 100 QCs, among them Professor Sir Geoffrey Nice, a former war crimes prosecutor.
The letter states: "The referendum did not set a threshold necessary to leave the EU, commonly adopted in polls of national importance, eg, 60% of those voting or 40% of the electorate. This is presumably because the result was only advisory.
"The outcome of the exit process will affect a generation of people who were not old enough to vote in the referendum. The positions of Scotland, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar require special consideration, since their populations did not vote to leave the EU.
"The parliamentary vote should take place with a greater understanding as to the economic consequences of Brexit, as businesses and investors in the UK start to react to the outcome of the referendum. 
"For all of these reasons, it is proposed that the government establishes, as a matter of urgency, a royal commission or an equivalent independent body to receive evidence and report, within a short, fixed timescale, on the benefits, costs and risks of triggering article 50 to the UK as a whole, and to all of its constituent populations. The parliamentary vote should not take place until the commission has reported." 
Aidan O'Neill QC, an expert in constitutional and EU law and one of the signatories, said: "The Brexit referendum has made clear that the UK is not a united nation state, but a divided state of nations. It has given no mandate or guidance as to what our nations' future relationship might be with Europe, and with each other. 
"If the UK is to survive the result of this vote, a consensus needs to be built up about the way forward. Fully informed discussions and deliberations within and between our parliaments is the only proper constitutional way to achieve this. Precipitate or unilateral action by the UK government to trigger article 50 will simply further divide us." 
Philip Kolvin QC, who coordinated this action, added: "Parliament is sovereign and the guardian of our democracy. MPs are elected to exercise their best judgment on the basis of objective evidence, to safeguard the interests of the country and their constituents for this and future generations. At this time of profound constitutional, political and possibly social and economic crisis, we look to them to fulfil the responsibility placed upon them." 
The letter is the latest initiative aimed at persuading Downing Street not to exercise royal prerogative powers and instead allow parliament to make the ultimate decision. At the weekend, the government turned down a multimillion signatory online petition pleading for a second referendum.
A legal challenge to David Cameron's assertion that he or his successor as prime minister can begin the withdrawal procedure is due to be heard in the high court next week. 
The claim is being coordinated by law firm Edwin Coe LLP, which specialises in class actions in the UK. It acted for 50,000 small shareholders in the Railtrack litigation and also in the Northern Rock judicial review. 
Confirming the firm's involvement, David Greene, a senior partner at Edwin Coe, said: "We are very pleased to be joining the bar team led by Dominic Chambers QC on this issue. This is an issue of crucial constitutional importance in the process of withdrawal from the EU.
"It makes perfect sense for this issue to be determined as soon as possible. The determination will clear the way for the right method to be adopted in serving notice under article 50. We will certainly be pressing the court to deal with the matter swiftly."


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GIBRALTAR (79%); WALES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               317 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit uncertainty weighs heavily on JPMorgan Chase

BYLINE: Ben McLannahan

SECTION: WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 271 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Like all big US banks, JPMorgan Chase has been waiting a long time for the profit-boosting effects of higher interest rates.
Marianne Lake , chief financial officer, told a conference last month that a lot of the bank's investments over the past decade would begin to pay off once the US Federal Reserve began to tighten, forcing the gap wider between the cost of deposits and the price of credit.
That moment "was closer in front of us now than it's possibly ever been", she said. "So we feel quite good about that."
But that was before the drama of Brexit and gloomy minutes from the Fed, which showed that policymakers flagged fears over a jobs slowdown even before the UK's EU referendum.
When JPMorgan kicks off the quarterly earnings season on  Thursday , investors will find out whether higher rates still feel imminent for the biggest US bank by assets. Analysts have been marking down profit forecasts for the entire sector. Credit Suisse struck a bearish tone last week, saying it was no longer counting on rate rises until 2019 at the earliest.
At Jefferies, analyst Ken Usdin penned a bleak note - titled "The world is flat" - saying that although some second-quarter trends were positive for the big banks, as a whole the sector "remains macro-driven and agnostic to fundamentals".
Bright spots for JPMorgan and Citigroup, which reports on Friday , should include credit quality, mortgage originations and a modest rally in investment banking from a grim first quarter. But most expect disappointment to set in again. As Keefe, Bruyette & Woods put it last week: "Calm seemed near until a new storm started." Ben McLannahan


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); US United States of America; XR Americas; XB North America

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               318 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote sees Danish schemes pull back on UK

BYLINE: Aliya Ram

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 209 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Denmark's largest pension fund has halted its investments in the UK following Britain's decision to leave the EU, citing the country's uncertain future.
ATP, which is Europe's fourth biggest pension scheme with assets of DKr750bn ($111bn), said it has almost totally eliminated its exposure to sterling and UK companies, and "significantly" decreased its exposure to European equities.
Carsten Stendevad, chief executive of ATP, which manages the pensions of 4.9m people, said: "Our appetite for taking exposure on any UK assets has dramatically decreased until we have more certainty on what will emerge."
Fellow Danish scheme Pension-Danmark, which has put DKr20bn into wind farms, biomass plants and transmission works in the UK, has also said it would be "more cautious than before" about investing in new UK infrastructure projects.
The comments follow a survey of 50 institutional investors by Preqin, the research firm, which found two-fifths of investors will reduce their exposure to UK assets over the next 12 months.
Colin Graham, chief investment officer for multi-asset funds at the investment arm of banking group BNP Paribas, said he would not invest in British assets even if they become much cheaper until there was clarity on domestic politics.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); DENMARK (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (74%); DK Denmark; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               319 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 6:30 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain will still be unable to define its global role without Europe; As US isolationism grows, a post-Brexit UK should look to a new special relationship - with the EU

BYLINE: Natalie Nougayrède

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 873 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: After the double shock produced by Brexit and the Chilcot report, we are faced with the wider question of how Britain will redefine its role in the world - and how that role may still depend on the cooperation it can maintain with its European neighbours.
 Related:  Will Nato's warmer words prevent a new cold war? | Mary Dejevsky
Last week Nato held a summit in Warsaw, cast as a welcome show of western solidarity at a time when Brexit has placed a huge question mark over transatlantic relations. Nato will remain a pillar of European security, but as Britain starts pulling out of the EU there will be consequences. Historically Britain has been pivotal to the transatlantic link. Now pressure is mounting for the EU to take more responsibility for its own security, to prevent chaos spilling into its territory from the east and south.
Britain will be faced with stark choices. Cut off from the EU but still inside Nato, it risks becoming an ever more junior partner to the United States. That is a gamble given the current mood of US isolationism, and the possibility of Donald Trump being elected president. Yet engaging with the EU from outside on foreign policy and security issues will require a considerable amount of goodwill on both sides - and there is little on display right now.
Asked how a European framework might have saved Britain from its Iraqi adventure, Robert Cooper, an experienced British diplomat who in 2003 worked with the EU, says: "It's very healthy for any government to hear different views, and in terms of getting a challenge to your policy, the EU is not a bad place to be."
Government is essentially introspective. And civil servants aren't particularly good at telling the truth to their political bosses. As excerpts from the Chilcot report show, Tony Blair was locked in a highly personal relationship with George W Bush (illustrated by the " I will be with you, whatever " note). In 2002-03 Blair never found himself in a room with EU leaders - who would have challenged him about how, and why, he planned to resolve the Saddam Hussein problem.
Europe was of course deeply divided over Iraq. The two largest continental powers, France and Germany, were staunchly opposed to the war. Jacques Chirac, then French president, threatened to veto any UN resolution that might authorise an intervention. Gerhard Schröder, the German chancellor, made opposition to the war a key theme of his re-election campaign in autumn 2002.
When the EU forges a common position on a tricky foreign policy issue, it can fine-tune its choices and get things right
This reinforces Cooper's point. When the EU does try to forge a common position on a tricky foreign policy issue, it can fine-tune its choices and get things right. Take the case of Myanmar: years ago a balance was struck among EU states between tough, US-backed sanctions (which the UK also supported), and the views of those countries, such as Italy, that didn't want any sanctions at all. In the end, Europe exerted pressure by discouraging investments in Myanmar, but without closing the door to dialogue.
One thing Britain will lose once it is out of the EU is the sustained interaction that comes from taking part in a constant stream of EU meetings: the often tiresome but indispensable routine of trying to find common solutions to common problems. That common diplomatic culture existed for 40 years - with ups and downs - but is about to be dismantled entirely.
Of course, working out a European policy on Myanmar is not the same thing as finding a compromise between war or no war in the Middle East. Iraq set in motion a much deeper clash of interests among Europeans: Britain's "special relationship" with the US was a key item in that diplomatic battle.
 Related:  The Iran agreement is a disaster for Isis | Federica Mogherini
But now, with global US power having become more relative, post-Brexit Britain will have to think hard about what it may still want to do with European partners on foreign and security policy - if anything at all. There is talk of strengthening EU-Nato cooperation. Nathalie Tocci, an adviser to Federica Mogherini, the EU high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, believes Brexit will ultimately encourage such a rapprochement - and that would arguably be the only positive outcome of the referendum. Others such as George Robertson, a former Nato secretary-general, are less certain, because the UK's EU membership has been so central to seeking that cooperation.
The EU may not be seen as a heavyweight in foreign policy, but it played an important role in the Iran nuclear deal, and in pressuring Russia with sanctions. The US has repeatedly indicated it wants Europeans to shoulder more of a security role, and not just through Nato. Britain will be out of the EU club but, from terrorism to climate change and migration, none of the international challenges it faces are in any way different from those of its continental neighbours.
The danger is that Britain will now find itself so embroiled in the complexities of its divorce from the EU that it will end up in a hazardous position on the international stage: delusional about its influence on the US, and cut off from the wider European discussions.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               320 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Channel 4 must not be sold off and it can weather Brexit, say peers; Broadcaster financially robust enough to cope after EU vote and a profit-hungry owner would reduce news, film production and diversity programming

BYLINE: Mark Sweney

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 580 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A cross-party group of peers has told the government Channel 4 should not be sold off, and that it is financially fit enough to weather the battering media businesses are taking following the Brexit vote. 
The House of Lords communications committee said that a profit-hungry owner of Channel 4 would not be able to be stopped from potentially watering down commitments to news, film production and the broadcaster's strong record of diversity programming.
The committee flatly rejected the assertion made by John Whittingdale, culture secretary, that the commercially funded, state-owned broadcaster could be "better off" in private hands. 
Whittingdale had told the committee that an owner with deep pockets would have the ability to invest significantly more in content, including less commercially viable public service content, than the commercially funded, state-owned Channel 4. 
"Channel 4 boasts an array of innovative and creative programming as well as a strong commitment to public service broadcasting," said Lord Best, chair of the committee. 
"This is evident from its distinct news and current affairs coverage, it's much lauded contribution to cinema through Film4, and its pioneering approach to on-screen diversity. However, we fear that these qualities would be jeopardised were the channel to be sold off." 
Best said that news output would be "especially vulnerable" because it occupies large parts of the prime time schedule that a commercial owner would seek to make more profitable by substituting other shows. 
"Ofcom does not have the power to revoke Channel 4's licence and we are alarmed by the prospect that prospective new owners of Channel 4 could walk away from their public service broadcasting obligations, with Ofcom unable to prevent this," the report said. 
The report also said that it believed that Channel 4's model, which is completely dependent on the now extremely volatile advertising market, is sustainable. 
Following last month's shock UK vote to leave the European Union media stocks, including Channel 4 and shares in ITV tumbled by 20% as investors took fright at the potential impact of Brexit on businesses. 
Despite the uncertainty, the report said that Channel 4's model is sustainable, with a reassessment of its commercial position in 2024 when its Ofcom licence is renewed. 
"We believe it is well positioned to withstand possible market volatility following the result of the EU referendum," said the report. "We do not believe that Channel 4 is too vulnerable to continue as it is." 
In May, the government made a u-turn indicating that a full privatisation of Channel 4 was now off the cards, but it would continue to look at options including the sale of a minority stake. 
"We are calling on the government not to take forward any ideas to privatise Channel 4, wholly or in part, as it is our view that the risks from selling it off are greater than any benefits that may arise," said Best. 
Despite its outright support for Channel 4, the report did not let the broadcaster get away without criticism. 
The committee concluded that current programming for older children and young adults on Channel 4 is "unsatisfactory". 
"We strongly recommend that C4C demonstrates a greater commitment to making programmes specifically for this age group," the report states. "The committee wishes to see Ofcom take action if it determines, using measurable outcomes, that C4C's programming for older children and young adults remains inadequate." 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               321 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Clearing houses should not be a bargaining tool in Brexit talks; VIEW FROM THE US

BYLINE: John Dizard

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 730 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The City, which, thanks to the EU, was able to handle clearing operations for the eurozone, will not be able to do them. It can serve as an example for those who seek the end of Europe"- François Hollande, president of France, June 24 2016.
The problem with asking for a second opinion on some sensitive matter is that you may get an answer you will not like. That is now happening with the issue of how Brexit will affect the clearing of euro-denominated derivatives transactions. As a Chicago bond trader put it: "François Hollande has made people ask one of those questions that never should be asked."
There are two customary methods to deal with the existential risk of a seize-up in the clearing of securities and derivatives transactions. The first is for senior management and directors of clearing houses to delegate everything to the IT staff and lawyers. At the same time, management approves excessive budgets for updating systems. That can work.
The second method is for the banks and clearing houses to agree with their peers over a panic-stricken weekend that everyone will accept each other's intrinsically valueless promises to pay. Then political leaders can have a couple of hours to give their approval without actually reading the documents. That can work too.
In my view, though, using the forced relocation of UK-based euro-denominated derivatives clearing as a Brexit negotiating counter does not work. It would threaten to stretch out the timeline of the second method. The financial system could handle a weekend crisis, but every extra day spent disposing of confusing issues would be very, very expensive.
The share prices of Italian banks and certain Swiss and German banks say we could easily have another financial crisis over the coming months. President Hollande's June 24 remarks, and the less inflammatory comments along the same lines a day later by François Villeroy de Galhau, governor of the French central bank, in other circumstances could be considered reasonable negotiating tactics.
Nicholas Véron, a French financial infrastructure expert, says this is not just a discussion for lawyers. He says: "Where clearing houses are located is part of a broader discussion about infrastructure and the network effect. If the UK is out of the single market, I don't think clearing moves first. But it would be really difficult for those large-asset investment banks and asset managers to keep everything in a single shop in London."
There would, however, be enormous operational and legal problems in, for example, forcing LCH.Clearnet, the London-headquartered clearing house, to move its euro-denominated interest rate swaps business to Paris. As Dermot Turing, an expert on post-trade legal matters for Clifford Chance, the law firm, points out: "LCH in Paris is structured as a bank, while LCH in London is not a bank. They are structured as completely different clearing houses. It would be more than complicated. It would be awful."
Even so, within the central banking fraternity, there is a subculture of people who would very much like to question the tail risks of central clearing. As one multilateral clearing expert says: "I doubt the Bank of England, under Mark Carney, is entirely comfortable with having such a large clearing house book in the UK. When he was at the Bank of Canada, they thought it would be better to leave the counterparty risks to be managed by the banks themselves. The [BoE] could win a fight to save euro-denominated derivatives clearing. But maybe it will decide it does not want the potential risk to taxpayers."
Mr Turing agrees the BoE's commitment to domestic clearing houses is an open question. He says: "There is an argument that the UK has far too many central clearing parties as it is, given the systemic risk if one of these guys were to go bankrupt. The tax authorities love the clearing houses because they are a cash cow. What if the cow dies, though? Will the taxpayers pay to bury it?"
Even without a financial crisis, the clearing geeks, fintech promoters and central bankers believe the clearing house system will be replaced, probably by something that evolves from blockchain technology. So as my Chicago friend says: "The banks and dealers will not want to replicate a soon-to-be-outdated system and move it from London to Paris or Frankfurt."
So why make clearing houses part of Brexit discussions?


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); FR France; US United States of America; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               322 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Construction could be dented by Brexit fallout

BYLINE: Mark Paul

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 255 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Confidence in the construction industry remains at near-record 
levels, but it is too soon to assess if the sector's feel-good factor will be dented by the vote for Brexit, a study by Ulster Bank says.
The bank's construction purchasing managers index (PMI) report for June, a barometer for the building trade that tracks order levels, recorded a significant acceleration in June, after growth had slipped back in May.
The index's rate of expansion hit a three-month high with marked increases in overall activity, new orders and employment. An expansion in the commercial sector led the way, followed by the housing sector and civil engineering.
Many of the responses for the PMI survey were returned prior to the British vote, however, leading the bank's economists to warn the effect on confidence cannot be ascertained at this point. The new business index has been expanding continuously for three years, while the overall index has been expanding ever since it first returned to positive territory after the crash in 2013. 
 Sub-contractors 
The use of sub-contractors increased in June, having declined in each of the previous two months. The availability of sub-contractors is contracting at one of the fastest rates in the history of the index.  
The rush for new supplies and materials due to increased building activity has meant suppliers are slower delivering goods, according to the index. Lead times lengthened during the period. Input costs rose, with the costs of insurance, oil and steel singled out for special mention.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               323 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Demand for business start-up loans expected to grow in uncertain climate following Brexit vote; Funding scheme

BYLINE: Andrew Bounds, Enterprise Editor

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 643 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Demand for cheap government-backed loans for starting a business is expected to grow if the economy slows because of the vote to leave the EU.
Tim Sawyer, chief executive of the Start Up Loans company , said banks could restrict lending just as more people seek to strike out on their own in an uncertain economic climate. Some 45 per cent of recipients of the subsidised loans were previously unemployed.
"Against the backdrop of doubts relating to employment and access to finance, we might expect more people to turn to the scheme for support in starting up, and Start Up Loans will make that happen," he told the FT.
The number had dipped since 2013 as the economy grew and more people found employment. After handing out 13,000 loans in 2013, it expected to write 10,000 this year, before the referendum result.
"The vote to leave the EU has understandably created some uncertainty for small businesses and start-ups.
"Our mandate is to support those people looking to start a business, especially those who would ordinarily struggle to access finance," said Mr Sawyer.
He added the scheme was needed more than ever, and aims to lend almost £70m this year.
"It is a hard life in 21st century Britain and, if people get a break, they normally seize it and do well. The people we lend to would not get credit elsewhere - or would be paying 20 per cent interest or more. Then they don't have the cash spare to fund the business."
Even alternative lenders such as crowdfunding sites could not replace it, he said. They require assets as collateral and charge about 9 per cent.
Start Up Loans has lent £220m to 38,000 businesses since it started in 2012. Initially recipients had to be under 24, but the age limit has been lifted.
The default rate is high - 35 per cent of loans are in arrears . But the government has set a ceiling of 40 per cent since the scheme lends to riskier clients.
"We are doing much better in terms of learning who will be successful. Many do not have a credit score so you have to look beyond," said Mr Sawyer. "Some people we turn down, others are given help to work on their business plan."
Some successes are a surprise. It has funded a group of Cornish surfers to make organic surfboards made of plant material. "They were well known to police but now they say they are too busy to get in any trouble."
It lends disproportionately to the young, women and ethnic minorities. Some 41 per cent of Start Up loans go to women, who found 25 per cent of businesses nationally. Some 25 per cent go to ethnic minority entrepreneurs, who account for just 7 per cent of businesses.
Some 80 per cent of its clients have survived the first four years but it still lost £15m last year through defaults.
"Every pound we put into the local economy we are getting £3 back. The Treasury thinks that is good value. And that does not include the social impact or savings such as unemployment benefit not being paid. The return would be £5-6 if we counted that."
Customers range from a dog grooming parlour that now has a national franchise, to a brewery in Salford run by seven brothers.
It lends via intermediaries around the country and administration costs account for about 18 per cent of turnover. Its loans carry a 6 per cent interest rate and the sum is capped at £25,000 per person in the business, up to £75,000.
The UK has many more entrepreneurs than it used to. There were 5.4m private sector businesses at the start of 2015, 1.9m more than in 2000. Some 4.1m do not employ anyone except the owner. In 2015 a record 608,110 businesses were founded, up from 581,173 in 2014.
Start Up Loans is funded until 2020. Mr Sawyer said his main challenge now is to find follow-on funding for companies. "We have a company making a child-friendly organic popsicle. They have so many supermarket orders they need to move into new premises. Where do they get the money?"


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               324 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Don't blame Brexit alone for fall in optimism, says BDO

BYLINE: Colin Donald

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 224 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Business optimism and output in Scotland have fallen to a three-year low while hiring intentions are the lowest for two years, according to the latest business trends report by accountants and business advisers BDO.
The authors warned against assumptions about the impact on confidence of the Brexit vote and identified an outbreak of "unhelpful hysteria" in reaction to the EU poll. They ascribed some of the downbeat sentiment to uncertainty following the Brexit vote, but noted that the figures had been in decline for a year", indicating more deep rooted-problems.
Business output, which reflects companies' experience of orders for the three months ahead, now sits at 99.0 on BDO's measure, down from 104.1 in June 2015. Business optimism, which predicts growth six months ahead, fell to 98.9 and was at 103.9 for the same period last www.year.UK manufacturing continues to have the gloomiest outlook, slumping to 83.8.
Uncertainty has also contributed to the continuing slowing rate of job creation. BDO's employment index, which indicates firms' intentions to hire, has now dropped to 101.4 from 109.1 a year ago and is currently at a two-year low.
Commenting on the findings, Martin Gill, Scottish head of BDO, said: "The latest output and optimism figures are down considerably on June 2015 when the EU referendum wasn't even on the agenda."


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (90%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               325 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Fresh aviation agreements must come first in a post-Brexit world

BYLINE: Tony Tyler

SECTION: FT REPORT - AEROSPACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's vote to leave the EU vote has triggered enormous uncertainty. The shockwaves of Brexit instantaneously extended worldwide and the fallout will clearly affect the air transport industry, which plays a critical role connecting our world.
The most apparent effects on aviation are twofold: economic and regulatory. On the economic side, exchange rates and markets have already moved. This will undoubtedly change travel plans and shipping needs in both the short and long term. Experts have developed scenarios for how Brexit might unfold. Using these, our best estimate is that travel to and from the UK will grow more slowly - by up to 1.5 percentage points a year. Airlines are well placed to deal with that challenge. They are experienced and adept at adapting to economic shocks. Demand can fluctuate for many reasons.
By 2020, slower growth could mean that the UK's aviation industry will be 3 to 5 per cent smaller than it would have been without Brexit. That is a significant and unfortunate gap that will have its own economic consequences. I would be remiss if I did not remind the government that some of this could be mitigated by eliminating air passenger duty. But even if growth is slower, the aviation sector will still be a vital part of the UK economy.
Today there are 1.3m UK jobs tied to aviation. And the industry contributes nearly $100bn annually to the UK's economy. A small portion of UK aviation activity serves domestic markets, but the vast majority of the demands that they meet are for international connectivity to continental Europe and further flung places. Specific air services agreements - outside of normal trade arrangements - make this possible.
Last year saw about 160m air trips to and from the UK. About two-thirds of those were linked to the EU. Whatever political framework exists between the UK and Europe, the fundamental demand for travel between the two will remain.
And facilitating these links should be at the top of the priority list for the government's negotiators.
There is a lot at stake on the regulatory side. The world-leading regulatory framework of the single EU aviation market has produced safe, efficient and economical air connectivity across Europe and beyond. As a result of growing air links, businesses are stronger, people are more prosperous, and the quality of life for Europe's citizens has been enhanced.
Looking more broadly, the agreement between the EU and US is similarly important. Allowing carriers from either market unlimited access for international services has seen the web of connectivity between the continents expand with economic benefits accruing on both sides of the Atlantic.
What should aviation agreements look like in a post-Brexit world? Some suggest that the UK should remain part of the European Common Aviation Area, or negotiate a bespoke EU-UK agreement as Switzerland has. Whichever framework is chosen, the best outcome would be an essentially unchanged operating environment. We cannot step backwards. And in the face of potentially very difficult adjustments across the economy, any solution that compromises aviation's contribution to social and economic development is simply not acceptable.
The task ahead is big and it is complicated. It should not be underestimated in any way, including the negotiating skills that will be required. That is particularly true for the UK which has little recent experience of negotiating air service agreements. Close co-ordination with industry will be critical to achieving a practical agreement.
People want to explore their world. Businesses need to work with global partners. Supply chains rely on worldwide access. And the best ideas are supported by real experiences. There are myriad reasons why aviation is a force for good in our world. Brexit changes none of them. It is paramount that, when the negotiations between the UK and Europe turn to air services, the focus is firmly on maintaining the benefits of connectivity.
 Tony Tyler is the director-general and chief executive of the International Air Transport Association (Iata)


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               326 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Gibraltar calls for second EU vote after post-Brexit deal is done; Referendum

BYLINE: Tobias Buck in Madrid

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 478 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Gibraltar is calling for a second referendum once a post-Brexit deal is struck with the EU as it focuses on talks with Scotland over ways to remain a member of the European bloc.
The British territory on the southern tip of Spain, which was the UK's most pro-EU district with 96 per cent of -voters supporting Remain, wants the British people to have their say on the outcome of negotiations between the UK and other EU member states after Article 50 has been invoked.
"In the referendum two weeks ago it was either in, with our existing conditions, or out. But nobody knew what out meant," Fabian Picardo, the chief -minister of Gibraltar, told the Financial Times in an interview.
He said voters should be given a second chance to decide between remaining part of the EU and accepting a new post-Brexit accord with EU member states.
While most political leaders in the UK have generally accepted that there is no way to cancel the result of last month's EU referendum, Mr Picardo's proposal for a second referendum will be fiercely rejected by Leave campaigners.
But the head of the Gibraltar government suggested that some Brexit supporters could change their mind once the final outlines of the UK's new relationship with the EU became clear.
"Some people who voted to leave might have thought that an out deal meant something completely different. Some people might have voted with rose-tinted spectacles, and others might have been persuaded on the basis of a false prospectus that Brexiters advanced," he said.
Mr Picardo said the UK had to take account of the fact that crucial parts of the electorate - such as Scotland and Gibraltar - had voted in favour of EU membership.
He added that talks with the Scottish government over how to secure continued membership were considering options such as the "reverse Greenland" model. This would mean redefining the territory of the UK in a way that would leave Scotland, Gibraltar and possibly Northern Ireland inside the EU while allowing England and Wales to leave. It is based on a 1985 EU decision that allowed Greenland, a devolved part of Denmark, to leave the union while Denmark remained.
"It is a devilishly simple plan with devilishly complex details. But it is an option," said Mr Picardo.
Gibraltar's strong support for EU membership reflects widespread concern that a British exit from the union will embolden neighbouring Spain to press its sovereign claim to the tiny peninsula. Hours after last month's referendum result became clear, Spain's foreign minister urged the UK to accept "shared sovereignty" over Gibraltar, insisting that Madrid was "much closer" to putting "the Spanish flag on the Rock".
Mr Picardo dismissed the claim, advising Spanish politicians to "stop wasting your breath". He added: "The sovereignty of Gibraltar is not going to change. People just have to move on from a centuries-old claim."


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); GIBRALTAR (94%); SCOTLAND (94%); SPAIN (93%); DENMARK (92%); GREENLAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); WALES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GI Gibraltar; ES Spain; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               327 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 7:12 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: In the aftermath of Brexit, police must improve hate crime training; Social tensions have been exacerbated by the EU referendum, and current training for officers bears little resemblance to working on the frontline

BYLINE: Loretta Trickett

SECTION: PUBLIC LEADERS NETWORK

LENGTH: 848 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The EU referendum has plunged the UK, and Europe, into an era of social, economic and political uncertainty. One of the most immediate and visible manifestations of this uncertainty has been the widely reported wave of hate, hostility and intolerance towards other EU citizens. 
Clearly, it would be naive to explain hate crime incidents only through the lens of a changing political narrative; hate is more complex than that. Yet history tells us that the language used by those in positions of power, most notably politicians and the media, has the ability to legitimise hatred in those who are already looking for scapegoats to pin problems on. 
With minority groups feeling unsafe and uncertain about their future in Britain, how the police respond to hate and hostility is critical, particularly when past policing failures such as the Stephen Lawrence case are regularly aired in the media. More than ever, strong police leadership is needed to help foster trust and cohesion within communities. 
In part, this means making sure frontline police officers are trained to respond appropriately to hate crime victims, and at a higher level, to understand the impact that hate and hostility has within communities. 
Police hate crime training has been impacted by the demands of austerity and a lack of vision among some leaders
Too little academic and professional attention has been paid to the design and evaluation of police hate crime training. Indeed, owing to the lack of police training research, the 2010 Neyroud report on police leadership and training was forced to draw on evaluative research from other professions, most notably the NHS. 
If training is to be truly fit for purpose, this lack of evaluative engagement is troubling - as is the slow response to the government's 2012 plans to tackle hate crime and improve police training.
While there are some localised examples of good practice, the overall national picture is piecemeal, involving standardised training sessions, with no real context or personalisation, that do little to help frontline officers develop key skills in dealing with minority groups exposed to hate and hostility. 
                   Reporting hate crime                   
The good news is that while hate crime is still massively under-reported, particularly disability hate crime, some progress has been made in encouraging victims to report incidents to the police. Despite increases in first offence reporting, there is some evidence that repeat offences are less often reported and prosecutions of hate crimes have not kept pace.
Some say this can be explained by the deficiencies in training. In interviews with 34 Nottinghamshire police officers, research from Nottingham Trent University revealed hate crime training to be overwhelmingly online and classroom based, involving a linear training environment at odds with the discretion, choices and complexity that officers face when dealing with victims of hate and hostility.
While training helped officers to know what procedures to follow, there is a notable misalignment between training and the frontline. The result is that officers rarely value hate crime training, which many of think of as the force merely paying lip-service to hate and hostility issues. In the Nottingham study, police officers felt that training fell short on articulating how hostility could be established (or not) and what courses of action, including prosecution, were possible.
 Related:  UK 'hotspots' targeted in bid to calm post-Brexit tension
Issues of safeguarding are also hugely important when dealing with hate crime victims, yet police officers complained that the training failed to provide them with information about who was best placed to put safeguarding protocols for victims in operation. Too often the police are held responsible for hate crime when a multi-agency response is needed - but this multi-agency response needs to be embedded and resourced within police training. 
Despite the rhetoric of a commitment to taking hate crime seriously, it would appear that police hate crime training has been impacted by the demands of austerity and a lack of vision among some police leaders. Ultimately, this has led to cheap, standardised training formats which deliver little tangible benefit to officers and have wider repercussions for society as a whole.
In the aftermath of Brexit, when social tensions and divisions are exacerbated, we must take up the mantel of improving hate crime training for our frontline officers and provide them with more support in tackling this pernicious form of violence.
                     Dr Loretta Trickett is a researcher at the Centre for the Study and Reduction of Hate Crimes, Bias and Prejudice, Nottingham Trent University.                   
                     Talk to us on Twitter via                                            @Guardianpublic and                                            sign up                      for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               328 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 7:45 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: In the US, Brexit has become a shorthand for 'Sorry your country failed'; Being British used to have a cachet in America, which the vote to leave the EU has destroyed. In the Jane Austen novel of international life, we are now Fanny Price - the throwback no one respects

BYLINE: Arwa Mahdawi

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 911 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Last week, in the wake of Brexit, a guy waylaid me near my apartment building. Was I voting in New York's congressional primaries, he wanted to know, flourishing flyers. "I can't," I explained, "I'm English." There was a pause. "Oh," he said, "I'm sorry. My condolences."
Brexit has broken Brand Britain. It's not just the pound that has plummeted since 24 June; there has also been a rapid devaluation of our international image. Once upon a time - like, three weeks ago - a "British" accent was an asset in the US. It connoted class, culture and cosmopolitanism. Now it conveys parochialism, priggishness and poor political decisions.
For someone who is an expat in America, Brexit has felt like having a very public, but sort of embarrassing, death in the extended family. Everyone I come across seems to feel a need to acknowledge what happened without really knowing what to say. (With the exception of one stranger in a lift who heard me discussing Brexit with another Brit and promptly started Amerisplaining. It's not about racism, she informed us between floors; it's about pride and sovereignty. 'Kay. Thanks. Bye.) Mostly, though, Americans clock my accent and simply say "Brexit" pityingly. It has basically become shorthand for: "Hi, how are you? Sorry your country failed."
Then there's American media smuggery. Despite needing some frenzied post-referendum Googling to realise Brexit wasn't a breakfast cereal and Brussels wasn't (just) a sprout, some US commentators seem to have become overnight EU aficionados. Others have relished the chance to give Britain a serving of the scorn we have heaped on it over Donald Trump. Brexit voters missed the lesson of 1776, trumpeted the Washington Post. Great Britain or "Little England"?, asked the New York Times. British Lose Right to Claim That Americans are Dumber, announced the New Yorker. It's hard to escape a sense of stateside schadenfreude, compounded by the referendum results being announced shortly before 4 July, the 240th anniversary of the US's own, rather more triumphant, Amerexit.
British politics rarely cause so much interest in the US. Last year's general election, for example, passed most Americans by. Brexit is different for a number of reasons. For one thing, it's more exciting to watch the world burn rather than to see the democratic process slowly chugging along. "British politics turns into a fast-paced TV drama," enthused CNN. Then there are the populist parallels with Trump's ascendancy and worries that the June result foreshadows a November Trumpocalypse. Finally, there's that schadenfreude again. A suspicion that the US has been sneered at for the past 240 years by an island that lost an empire but retained a superiority complex. A sense that the veil has been lifted and Britain has nothing left to feel superior about.
"In the Jane Austen novel of international life, we were supposed to be Marianne, the one with all the feelings," said the Washington Post, in a display of post-Brexit sensibility. "You were supposed to be Elinor, the sensible one ... We read all these books of yours about people in the countryside drinking tea for hours on end because we thought you knew better than we did! "
Being British used to have a cachet in the US - which Brexit has now destroyed. We're no longer Elinor, the sensible one. In the Jane Austen novel of international life, we are Fanny Price: the throwback no one respects.
Which is a shame, because Brand Britain was doing so well. A 2013 study found that Britain's international image had significantly improved over the past decade, with the 2012 London Olympics being a substantial catalyst. Pre-Olympics, the US saw the UK as "traditional", "unapproachable" and "restrained". Post-Olympics, it was "kind", "approachable" and more "caring".
The unprecedented stateside success of Downton Abbey and Sherlock, and the sudden availability of wider British programming via Netflix, helped spur major appreciation for British TV, culture and slang in the past few years. Harry Potter, of course, became synonymous with Britain for a generation of Americans who grew up on the books. Buzzfeed even helpfully explained Brexit to befuddled Americans in Harry Potter terms.
Britain has also been seriously investing in its brand, pouring £113.5m into the GREAT Britain campaign, launched in 2012. This was the UK's most ambitious marketing effort ever and the first really unified approach to promoting its image abroad. It largely consisted of British icons such as Bond, Beckham, Branson and Paddington Bear (an immigrant from Peru) alongside proclamations such as, "SPORT IS GREAT BRITAIN, CULTURE IS GREAT BRITAIN, INNOVATION IS GREAT BRITAIN". All in block capital letters, of course, so the foreigners could understand.
The irony of the GREAT campaign is that while the British government was going to such expense and effort to ensure the rest of the world understood its brand, it had no idea what Britain had actually become. A country divided and deflated by austerity; a kingdom united more by hate than by great. Perhaps the government should have spent less time worrying about its reputation abroad and more about its reality at home. Perhaps it should have focused more on its infrastructure than its image. Not that Britain should now scrap the marketing campaign entirely, however. With the pound depreciating so drastically, the government can quite truthfully tell American tourists that BRITAIN IS GREAT VALUE.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (55%); BELGIUM (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               329 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 10:02 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Labour must be fit to govern - and it needs a leader who wants that too; The country does not believe our party is ready to guide it through the difficult post-Brexit period. That's why I'm standing for the leadership

BYLINE: Angela Eagle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 669 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Today I announced that I am standing as leader of the Labour party. I did not make that decision lightly. The issue at stake is not just the future of a great political party, but ensuring Britain has a viable alternative government at a time of momentous change.
 Related:  Angela Eagle says 'I'm here to win' at launch of Labour leadership bid
These are dark times for Labour. And as we navigate a future outside the European Union, they are dangerous times for our country.
I have been a party member since the age of 16. When I became an MP 24 years ago, I did so to provide the same opportunity to others that I was fortunate enough to enjoy myself. We can't do that if we're not in government. And we can't hope to do that if there is no real prospect of us being in government in the foreseeable future.
It is our duty to ensure that the  new prime minister, Theresa May, faces a credible and forensic opposition, and to offer a bright future for our damaged economy and fractured society. We are the only people who can hold this rightwing Tory government to account and replace it by winning a general election.
We're simply not in a position to do that at the moment. Jeremy Corbyn can't provide the leadership this huge task needs. But that's not just my view: it is that of the vast majority of my colleagues at Westminster - MPs who were elected by 8 million British people to defend their interests. And, crucially, it is the view of voters I speak to up and down the country.
I believe I can provide that leadership, and I know I can unify our party in the process too. I'm no Blairite, Brownite or Corbynista. What I am is my own woman, someone rooted in our party, and someone who knows how much a force for good Labour has been in office and can be in the future.
But if we are to succeed, we need to concentrate on the politics of hope, not on grievance and blame. That's the only way we can deliver on our principles of equality, social justice and social mobility.
We need practical socialist policies to heal the divisions and address the uncertainties created by the referendum
That's my practical socialism, and that's the sort of socialism that has helped us deliver in government, from the NHS to the minimum wage to cutting child poverty. Real change comes from translating our values into policies that can win popular support.
What's been so extraordinary about Jeremy is that after taking the leadership he has done so little with it. He has not brought forward practical policies to deal with the problems Britain faces. Instead he harks back to a 1983 manifesto  that almost saw us annihilated.
We need practical socialist policies for today, to heal the divisions and address the uncertainties created by the referendum. The leave vote - often strongest in traditional Labour areas - was a message from millions who felt no one had listened to them for a long time.
Theresa May will shortly start negotiating our future outside the EU. We must be clear: the consequences of Brexit must not be dumped on those Labour communities who have already suffered the most from Tory cuts. I was appalled to hear my party leader on TV the morning after the vote demanding the immediate activation of article 50, which would have led to a countdown to exit. I don't think even Nigel Farage was calling for that.
We need to work for the real interests of working people, who have most to lose if May gets it wrong. That's why I will demand that the UK government enshrine into the post-Brexit arrangements a commitment to the same labour standards as Europe. We need to compete on skills and ingenuity, not on sacrificing workers' rights in a race to the bottom.
I want to give the millions of people who voted Labour - and the millions more who would like to do so again - the hope that the party can be an alternative government, ready and equipped to serve. We need to be brutally honest and recognise that the country does not believe that, when they look at us right now. But they will if I win this fight.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               330 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Lowest-paid workers to receive smaller pay rises, says thinktank; Uncertainty caused by Brexit vote means 'national living wage' will rise more slowly, according to the Resolution Foundation

BYLINE: Sarah Butler

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 531 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Millions of workers on the national living wage are set for smaller than expected pay rises by the end of the decade after the EU referendum, according to a thinktank.
The "national living wage" introduced by the chancellor, George Osborne, is set to rise more slowly because it is linked to average worker earnings, which are now expected to come under pressure following the referendum.
The real-terms value of the wage by 2020 could be up to 40p an hour lower than the £8.31 predicted before the EU vote, according to the report by the Resolution Foundation.
The minimum pay rate of £7.20 an hour for over-25s was introduced by Osborne in April after he said: "Britain deserves a pay rise." The rate is designed to gradually increase over the next four years and initial estimates had suggested it could reach £9 an hour by 2020.
But the thinktank found there is increasing uncertainty about the outlook for earnings. This will have a major knock-on effect on the national living wage, it says. The national living wage aims to reach 60% of a typical (over-25) worker's hourly wage by 2020. The Resolution Foundation expects 4.5 million employees to benefit from the national living wage in 2016, rising to 6 million - or 23% of all employees - in 2020.
However, wage growth has stalled recently, with analysts citing a number of reasons. These include a lack of job-to-job moves and employer reluctance to increase pay while inflation is so low and the economic outlook is unclear.
Conor D'Arcy, a policy analyst at the Resolution Foundation, said: "Brexit is likely to reshape the landscape in which many low-paying sectors operate." 
According to an Ipsos Mori poll carried out for the thinktank, one in seven firms have already cut jobs, reduced staff hours or slowed recruitment after the national living wage's introduction in April. 
About 35% of the 500 businesses polled said their wage bill had increased as a result of the wage.
Of those businesses affected, 36% responded by increasing prices and 29% by taking lower profits. The Resolution Foundation said such short-term responses would have to be replaced by changes in behaviour over the medium-to-long term.
 Related:  The national living wage and what it means
One in seven firms have already invested more in training and 12% have spent more on technology to improve productivity. The Resolution Foundation said such approaches are important in making the national living wage a success and tackling the UK's wider productivity problems.
But the survey also found 14% of firms had used fewer workers, offered fewer hours to staff or slowed recruitment. In addition, 8% had reduced other aspects of their staff reward package, such as paid breaks, overtime or bank holiday pay. 
The survey results counter evidence that high-profile companies, including Tesco, Marks & Spencer and B&Q, clawed back staff benefits after the introduction of the national living wage.
D'Arcy said: "Encouragingly, evidence of workers seeing their hours cut or even losing their jobs has so far been relatively limited. The challenge now is for firms to continue to respond positively to the national living wage, particularly by raising productivity."


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               331 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Magic circle' law firms are untroubled by Brexit as revenues rise; Support services

BYLINE: Jane Croft

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 463 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The elite group of "magic circle" law firms with headquarters in London increased their revenues last year and signalled that the global nature of their work would help them weather any UK downturn resulting from its decision to leave the EU.
Revenue at four of the five firms rose to about £1.3bn each in the year to April 30, helped by an increase in areas such as mergers and acquisitions, litigation and capital markets.
Financial results published by the law firms showed that partners could on average expect to receive at least £1.2m for the year.
Freshfields reported a 6 per cent rise in revenue to £1.33bn in the 12-month period.
In the same period Allen & Overy reported a 2.3 per cent rise in revenue, to £1.3bn, helped by a global expansion in its mergers and acquisitions and capital markets practices, where it advised on 1,500 deals.
However, A&O reported a weaker second half as advisory work slowed while clients contended with uncertainty arising from the UK's EU referendum, the collapse in the oil price and lower growth in China.
Revenue at Clifford Chance rose 3 per cent to a record £1.39bn in the year, helped by strong growth in Asia-Pacific and the Americas.
Linklaters recorded a 3.4 per cent rise in income to £1.3bn in the same period. Slaughter and May does not release public figures.
Freshfields achieved the highest profit per equity partner (PEP), at £1.47m. PEP is closely watched in the industry as a crucial measure of a law firm's health.
Average PEP at A & O was flat at £1.2m, while at Clifford Chance it rose to £1.23m - an increase of 10 per cent compared with the previous year. At Linklaters PEP rose to £1.45m.
The law firms signalled that their global practices in Asia and the US would help them to compensate for any future weakness in the UK and Europe.
Andrew Ballheimer , A & O's global managing partner, called Brexit "the largest demerger in history", adding that it would be "unbelievably complex". He stressed that A & O's business was "well hedged", with just 35 per cent of revenues coming from the UK.
Matthew Layton , managing partner at Clifford Chance, said his firm too was "well hedged" to withstand any future UK slowdown.
Gideon Moore , managing partner at Linklaters, said the "mood is more positive" than it was immediately after the Brexit vote, adding that there was a feeling that we "just have to get on and make the best of it". He said it was a "different environment to what we had in 2008 and 2009".
Beyond the magic circle, Herbert Smith Freehills reported a 7 per cent rise in revenues to £870m in the year to April 30, from £815m the previous year. PEP was up 5 per cent at £840,000.
Ashurst saw revenue hit by sterling weakness, falling to £505m in the year ended April 30, with PEP falling to £603,000 from £716,000.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (90%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               332 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 8:42 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May has thwarted the Tory right. But the Brexit nightmare will haunt her; As the new prime minister, Theresa May's challenge will be to avoid the 'death by Europe' of her three Tory predecessors

BYLINE: Ian Birrell

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 896 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Shortly after David Cameron's election as Conservative leader, we were throwing around ideas to underscore his determination to change the party. None seemed to excite much enthusiasm. "Have you not got anything that will annoy the right a bit more?" he asked. Such was the mood in his early days, driven by his fierce desire to plant the Tory flag firmly on the centre ground and stop "banging on" about Europe.
Eleven years later, this dream lies in tatters. Cameron has become the third Tory prime minister in succession to have their term in office torn apart by bickering over Brussels. He leaves Downing Street at least two years earlier than planned, unable to solidify his legacy as a one-nation reformer and with achievements overshadowed by that needless referendum. He sought to appease the hard right on Europe; instead, they ripped open this running sore to force him from office.
 Related:  Theresa May: unpredictable, moralistic, and heading to No 10
As my former boss departs after six years as prime minister, we can at least give thanks that a rightwing coup against him ultimately failed. Yes, a cabal of social conservatives ousted Cameron, aided by foolish moderates who let personal ambition override common sense. Now our country must suffer the corrosive consequences of Brexit. But at least this faction has failed to reclaim the party and put one of their number in power.
The idea of Andrea Leadsom in Downing Street, with such anachronistic views on issues from feminism and gay equality to workplace regulation, was insulting to the electorate. She was both inadequate for the job and grossly inexperienced - and has been left humiliated by her imploded campaign. Yet 84 Tory MPs proposed her to the wider party as the person to heal the wounds of the divisive Brexit debate and take the country forward into a new relationship with the world. This reveals the shallowness of attempts at modernisation.
The rapid demolition of Leadsom's lamentable campaign shows the Tories remain hungry for power. It offers a telling contrast with the tragic contortions of Labour, which seems determined to spin out its leadership crisis for as long as possible. Now we face the intriguing prospect of the enigmatic Theresa May as prime minister, her steel shown by six years at the Home Office and a smart strategy plotting her dogged path to Downing Street.
It is rare a politician spends so long in the public eye yet remains so little known. May is seen as a tough operator, unafraid to tell Tory delegates they were viewed as the nasty party, and to deliver harsh truths to the police. I fear her approach to immigration, given a poor track record that includes the vile "Go Home" posters, a reluctance to compromise even on foreign students, and a perceived need to appease voters stirred into fury against migrants and refugees. Unfortunately politicians on all sides prefer to blame foreigners rather than themselves for long-term failures on public services.
 Related:  'Nasty party' warning to Tories
Yet she may surprise people. As a vicar's daughter with the air of a sensible headteacher who uses minimal small talk, May is often called a traditional shire Tory. Certainly she is pragmatic, weighing up decisions carefully and sticking to them - and woe betide anyone getting in the way of her tight-knit team. She is a control freak, who must learn the art of delegation in Downing Street. But although not a driven ideologue determined to shake up the country, she is more complex and interesting than the usual caricatures, with their whiff of patronising sexism.
Do not forget that it was May who 14 years ago bravely delivered to a Tory conference that controversial message that the party was seen as out of step with changing social dynamics. As campaigners will confirm, May is energised by unlikely issues such as police brutality in custody and the racial bias of stop-and-search. And she was singled out for praise by Liberal Democrat ministers for her crucial support of gay marriage, and by Labour's Andy Burnham for fighting the Hillsborough cover-up.
As a wily politician, May knows that it makes sense for Conservatives to be centrists rather than frothing away angrily on the right fringes, especially when Labour seems focused only on its own problems. Note how in her speech today, before Leadsom pulled out, May said that her government would deliver for those born poor, or who are black, or are white working-class, or women, or suffer mental health problems.
She believes a sustained attack on corporate vested interests can help reunite the country and reconnect with voters disenchanted by "elites", especially at a time when even millionaire bosses of multinationals believe their vast pay has become immoral. This also offends her own sense of decorum.
But one issue will hang heavy over her premiership: how to resolve the nightmare of Brexit. An aide suggested the inevitable recession will depress immigration, allowing her to tilt the balance towards open markets rather than closed borders while reassuring the electorate. Yet with a tiny majority and an embittered right, she faces a big challenge to find solutions that balance political reality with economic need.
Sadly, for all the fine talk May is likely to be another Tory prime minister who finds their tenure wrecked by little Englanders playing selfish games over Europe.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               333 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Most SMEs worried by Brexit, says study

BYLINE: Mark Paul

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 210 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  A study of almost 1,000 Irish small and medium enterprises (SMEs) has found that 60 per cent of them expect a negative reaction from the British vote to leave the European Union.
There were decreases in 10 out of the 12 economic indicators tracked for the lobby group Isme's quarterly business trends survey, for which the results for the first six months have been revealed.
The study was conducted by Isme in the first week after the Brexit vote, while businesses were still processing the shock of the result. A third of the respondents are based in Dublin, with the rest of the 945 businesses surveyed spread around the rest of the country. About 90 per cent employ fewer than 50 staff.
Indicators
 Indicators including business confidence, profitability and current employment all dropped to their lowest level since spring 2013, according to Isme.  
Broken down by sector, the retail industry proved a mixed bag. Despite the overall drop in confidence, the investment indicator for the sector remained in positive territory.
Most indicators were ahead in the manufacturing sector, although current employment levels were down. Confidence in the exporting sector was also reined in, as Isme warned the sterling fluctuations will continue to have a big impact. 


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               334 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 9:29 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Pinewood Studios set to profit from Brexit vote; Studio base for James Bond and Star Wars films announces 57% rise in profits and expects plunge in pound to boost revenue even further

BYLINE: Sean Farrell

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 240 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Pinewood Studios, home to the Star Wars and James Bond films, expects to benefit from the pound's fall since Britain voted to leave the EU.
Posting strong annual results, the Buckinghamshire-based film studio and production company said its international customers would gain from sterling's fall. 
Pre-tax profit rose 57% to £7.8m for the year to the end of March, when Pinewood was the base for the Bond film Spectre and Star Wars: Episode VII - the Force Awakens. Normalised earnings, stripping out one-off items and fluctuations, rose 31% on revenue rising 10.9% to a record £83.2m.
The pound has dropped more than 10% against the dollar since the referendum result was announced on 24 June, reflecting concerns about the economy. Several companies that rely on UK consumer spending have predicted difficult trading but the services of companies that sell overseas have become cheaper because of sterling's fall.
Ivan Dunleavy, Pinewood's chief executive, said: "The result of the UK's referendum on membership of the EU is now known. In the context of our business, the decline in the sterling exchange rate is undoubtedly positive for our international customers. We will continue to monitor sentiment around the issue going forward." 
Star Wars: Episode VIII started filming at Pinewood in February and the company, which also owns Shepperton Studios, said the current financial year had started well. Pinewood shares rose 2.2% to 554.5p.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               335 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Post-Brexit repeal of Human Rights Act in North opposed by State

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 543 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  The Government will express strong opposition to any moves by the next British government to repeal the Human Rights Act in the North, according to official sources.
Repeal of the Act, which incorporates the European Convention on Human Rights into British law, was pledged by Leave campaigners during the Brexit referendum.
However, the Conservative government had been promising to repeal the Act even before the referendum. 
In April, home secretary Theresa May said the UK should withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), regardless of the decision in the referendum.
Mrs May is now the leading contender to become Conservative leader and the next prime minister.
The ECHR, she said, "can bind the hands of parliament, adds nothing to our prosperity, makes us less secure by preventing the deportation of dangerous foreign nationals, and does nothing to change the attitudes of governments like Russia's when it comes to human rights".
Belfast Agreement
 Government sources speak approvingly of Mrs May as the best option among the Tory leadership contenders. Still, such talk clearly alarms the Irish Government. The Belfast Agreement explicitly commits Westminster to incorporate the ECHR into Northern Ireland law.  
Last year, Minister for Justice Frances Fitzgerald wrote to her British counterpart, Michael Gove, following statements from Mr Gove about repealing the Human Rights Act.
In a strongly worded letter, Ms Fitzgerald requested that the British government take account of the Belfast Agreement and of the Government's view in advance of any public consultation about repealing the Act insofar as it applied to Northern Ireland.
No replacement
 Ms Fitzgerald reminded Mr Gove that the Belfast Agreement required the incorporation of the ECHR into Northern Ireland law.  
She also said that "while a domestic Bill of rights could complement incorporation, it could not replace it".
In other words, the Government was telling its British counterparts that repealing the Human Rights Act in Northern Ireland would be a breach of the agreement.
The human rights framework of the ECHR, with external supervision by the European Court of Human Rights, had been essential to the peace process, Ms Fitzgerald wrote.
A senior official source said yesterday that if the next British government proceeded to seek to repeal the Human Rights Act, "the Irish Government would have a very strong view about that".
Privately, Government sources are not unhappy that Mrs May has emerged as the frontrunner in the Conservative party. "Of all the available options, she's not the worst," said one.
Irish politicians have dealt with the home secretary in relation to security co-operation matters in the past. "We know her, she's been over the ground, she gets it," said one source.
Mrs May suggested during the referendum campaign that some changes in the Border would be "inevitable" if Britain left the EU.
Campaigning for a Remain vote in the North, she acknowledged that the Common Travel Area predated the EU, but said that a UK pull-out would lead to tariffs.
Last week, Mrs May was endorsed by a huge majority of Tory MPs as the Conservative leadership race was whittled down to the final two contenders. She will now face Andrea Leadsom in a run-off.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRELAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               336 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Sale of assets in UK on hold over Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 191 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Tata Steel has put the process of selling its major British assets on hold because of the uncertainty caused by the Brexit vote and surrounding pension liabilities and will now also look at forming a joint venture, the company said.
Tata Steel put its British operations up for sale in March, including its Port Talbot plant in southern Wales, threatening thousands of jobs, but an industry source said on Thursday that the sale had been put on hold.
The firm said on Friday the June 23rd referendum, when Britons voted to leave the European Union, and issues around the pension scheme had prompted a rethink.
"The bids have also been reviewed in the light of the uncertainties caused by the UK referendum and the outcome of the UK government's consultation on the British Steel Pension Scheme," the firm said.
"Consequently, Tata Steel has now entered into discussions with strategic players in the steel industry, including Thyssenkrupp."
Tata Steel said that it would also begin separate processes for the potential sale of its Speciality Steels business and the northern English Hartlepool pipe mills except for its 20-inch Tube Mill. 
 - (Reuters)


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WALES (73%); EUROPE (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               337 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 10:47 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The case for a more independent, post-Brexit London is gaining strength; The capital is far from becoming a separate city-state, but debate about giving it increased autonomy in response to the EU referendum result is gathering intensity

BYLINE: Dave Hill

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 857 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Communities secretary Greg Clark has told the Financial Times he is "very keen" to devolve further powers to London and spoken highly of new London mayor Sadiq Khan, who he thinks "has shown himself to be a pragmatist that wants to work well with central government, to the advantage of London and the country". That's quite an endorsement, given that Clark's fellow Conservative Zac Goldsmith spent the first four months of the year claiming that Khan is a dangerous, Corbynite ideologue and apologist for Islamist extremists. 
If Clark is surprised by Khan's approach, he shouldn't be. The mayor has always been on Labour's practical rather than its doctrinaire left. As he demonstrated throughout the mayoral campaign, he has long understood that unless London mayors work constructively with London boroughs, London employers and national government they get nowhere. Khan was never going to be Jeremy Corbyn's creature in City Hall, as Goldsmith's dire campaign falsely and fruitlessly alleged. 
It seems possible that Khan might seal a better devolution deal for London than his predecessor Boris Johnson even hoped for. There was always the potential for that. When Johnson was lobbying for extra mayoral powers last year, Tory rivals were discouraging: George Osborne made fun of him and Theresa May kicked him in the water cannon. Now, as a " challenging " post-Brexit economic landscape takes shape - in large part courtesy of Johnson, you may recall - the Labour mayor and what currently passes for the Conservative government find themselves on common ground in trying to protect London's economy for the good of the country as a whole. 
Like or not, the capital is the source of 23% of the UK's economic output, and a new study by thinktank Centre for Cities has found that it generates no less than 30% of the UK's "economy taxes" - a growing proportion and as much as the 37 next biggest UK cities put together. Khan's argument is that giving London more control over its own affairs can help it and the wider economy to better weather the Brexit storm. It is a case that's gaining strength. 
Khan is seeking additional responsibility for the spending of property taxes raised in London, and wants London government to more directly run skills training and further education. He's also after further powers over housing and planning, transport, health and policing. This is not, Khan stresses, a demand for London to be handed more taxpayer cash than it already receives, but to be put more in charge of how taxes raised in London are spent in London, ensuring that the money is used to best effect. 
He has also asked for a "full seat" at the Brexit negotiations, whenever they eventually begin, and has described remaining in the European single market as essential to London's, and therefore the UK's, economic resilience. This call underlines the awkward fact that EU leaders have insisted that single market membership means the free movement of people within single market territory too. Given that a wish to lessen foreign immigration was a large motivator for leave voters across the land, it's hard to see how that circle can be squared.
And yet, as guests of the London Assembly's economy committee remarked last week, post-Brexit uncertainty means all sorts of things are now worth discussing that were on no-one's agenda before. Mark Littlewood, director general of free market thinktank the Institute of Economic Affairs, said that "asymmetrical immigration rules" within a UK that went in for devolution on a large scale are not "a technical impossibility". There could, in theory, he explained, be different visa arrangements for different areas. It was possible, for example, to "imagine a world in which an immigrant qualifies for a national insurance number with an 'L' at the end of it", which would mean he or she could work legally within Greater London's boundary but nowhere else.
UCL professor Albert Weale pointed out that this might be tricky if a London-based company had offices elsewhere in England, but LSE professor Tony Travers drew attention to an article by Rohan Silva, a former adviser to David Cameron, in which Silva said it would be "straightforward" to implement London-only work visas on a "simple points system", and that he'd been advocating this for years. 
"At first sight that sounds a bit surprising," Travers said, but added that "place-sensitive immigration systems" were now being discussed, and indeed already exist, notably in Canada. Yes, this was a complex and speculative area. However, Travers observed: "One of the intriguing consequences of the vote is that things are on the table to discuss which have never been considered before." 
London is a long, long way from becoming the independent city-state that some pro-EU Londoners, mostly half-jokingly, have dreamed of in the wake of the referendum shock. But momentum for it - along with other cities within the UK - becoming more independent within the UK appears to be growing in all kinds of fascinating ways.
                     Watch a webcast of the recent London Assembly economy committee meeting here.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               338 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 7:26 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The Guardian view on Theresa May as PM: triumph of a known unknown; The new Tory leader was perfectly positioned to make her own luck and to benefit from the stumbles of others. But in Brexit she faces a situation that would have daunted a Churchill

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 753 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It requires an effort to remember it, but at the start of this year, David Cameron was expected to stay until 2019. The men most likely to succeed him were George Osborne and Boris Johnson. There was talk about how Sajid Javid, Nicky Morgan or Stephen Crabb were really the ones to watch. Others flirted with the idea of somehow getting Ruth Davidson into the race. Yet amid all the chatter, Theresa May was rarely mentioned, or, if mentioned, was dismissed as bit of a loner without much backbench support, and disliked in Downing Street. In many supposedly informed Tory eyes, Mrs May was a prime candidate for the chop in the expected post-referendum reshuffle.
Well, the whirligig of politics brought in its revenges for Mrs Mayon Monday, and did it big time, delivering the biggest prize in British politics gift-wrapped into her lap. With Andrea Leadsom's camp rightly deciding after an accident-prone weekend that the game was up, Mrs May has completed a rout of her rivals in less than three weeks, and all without apparently breaking sweat. She is now Mr Cameron's successor, and on Wednesday she will enter 10 Downing Street as Britain's new prime minister, the second woman - and the second Tory woman - to hold the office.
Mrs May has certainly had her luck in reaching No 10. George Osborne's too-clever-by-half budget in March finally dished his chances. The Brexit vote pushed Mr Cameron into an early departure. Boris Johnson's opportunism and lack of seriousness meant he squandered his opportunity. Michael Gove showed again that the one who wields the knife loses the prize. Mrs Leadsom emerged from the scrum as the least tarnished of the Tory right's anti-Europeans but then showed she was simply not up to the job. With its unrivalled ability - certainly unrivalled by Labour - to sort itself out efficiently, the Tory party discovered at the weekend that it was ready to unite around Mrs May without a contest after all. A grievance about that will doubtless fester in places. But there has been an unmissable sense among Tories in the past few days that, at a hugely difficult time for the party and the country, they would be mad to do a Corbyn.
However, Mrs May has made her luck too. With her ministerial experience and her pragmatic Euroscepticism, she was always well positioned. She has worked the local party associations hard over the years, not least when she chaired the Tories rather effectively a decade ago, and she has been that rarest of ministers, a successful home secretary. Self-evidently ambitious, she does not parade either her ego or her conscience around British politics. But, while she is too hawkish on internet security and privacy, and she was in charge at the time of the repellent "Go home" billboards, she is not - although she will be compared with her - Margaret Thatcher 2.0. Rather she may be, in some ways, a throwback to a textbook one-nation Tory of the pre-Thatcher era. In other ways, though, Mrs May is not a central casting Tory. Her hostile relationship with the police is evidence of that. Meanwhile on Monday in Birmingham, embarking on a battle of ideas with Mrs Leadsom that was to last a mere 60 minutes, Mrs May made a genuinely innovative speech about corporate governance. She not only attacked the pay gap, an easy target, but made the strongest pitch for a revolution in workplace democracy by any senior politician in years. It was a speech that a Thatcherite like Mrs Leadsom could never have made. German-style co-determination has been a ball waiting for British politicians to pick up and run with since the 1970s. Mrs May's willingness to do this shames both the Thatcher tradition and Labour's too. She also, memorably, pledged to restore confidence in government's motives.
Mrs May comes to the premiership promising competence, unity and new ideas. Monday's speech was a down payment on that. But the reality is that her government's agenda will be dominated by Brexit, on which she has uncharacteristically painted herself into a corner with the promise that the UK's withdrawal will be in the hands of leaver. That may make short-term sense in party terms, but it is not necessarily in either the national interest or the long-term interest of the Tories. Cold economic winds may end Mrs May's honeymoon very quickly. She is in some ways the most interesting and hard-to-read Tory leader since John Major, what Donald Rumsfeld would have called a known unknown. But she comes to office at a time that would have challenged a Churchill.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               339 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The militarisation of Europe is a far greater threat than Brexit

BYLINE: Ray Kinsella

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1191 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THE most searching challenge that the EU faces is not the fallout from Brexit - it's from the militarisation of Europe and the US-led Nato encirclement of Russia, endorsed by the Nato Summit in Warsaw last weekend.
It is as misconceived as austerity and authoritarianism, which are at the heart of the European crisis. But it is infinitely more dangerous. If the Chilcot Report on the war in Iraq proves anything, it is that the momentum towards armed conflict, once started, becomes difficult to contain.
Militarisation will make it much more difficult to deal with the EU's migration crisis, itself largely a consequence of the catastrophic effects of Western military intervention. A conflagration between US-led Nato and Russia would increase the numbers of refugees in Europe by an order of magnitude. As for the impact of such a conflagration on the European and global economy - well, all bets are off. We could not begin to model the impact - but we can look at post-war Europe and Iraq and Syria and Libya... Only what are euphemistically termed 'Defence' industries do (exceedingly) well out of war.
In April, I suggested in these pages that Europe was in denial. It was mired in an identity crisis largely brought on by itself - a crisis of values, democracy - as well as macroeconomic instability marked by inequality, youth unemployment and longterm indebtedness among peripheral countries. There was no trust in Europe. "The governance of the eurozone is characterised by selfinterest, subservience among weaker indebted members and, also, tenacity beyond all reason, in persisting with failed policies."
In June, prior to the Brexit Referendum, I pointed out that "while it was not the job of UK voters to resolve this mess - Brexit can force these same Euro elite to see reality. The EU is incapable of understanding that the dissenting voices across Europe - which they like to dismiss as 'populism' - are not the problem: the real issue is the underlying causes that have precipitated opposition to what the EU has become."
This perspective was vindicated by the EU's initial response to Brexit - denial, anger and a blame game.
Then, more positively, the first stirrings of a change in attitude by the EU 'Top Table' - notably Dr Wolfgang Schäuble - including a decision not to respond to Brexit by pressing ahead with 'union' and not to overly pressurise the UK in implementing Article 50.
Militarism threatens this. The process of rebalancing and reform, including greater democratisation across the EU, is now in jeopardy from the increased militarisation of the EU over the last two years, which is set to increase in the wake of the Warsaw summit. It is an appalling prospect.
Why do 'leaders' never see these things coming down the track? Every Leaving Cert student knows 'The Causes of World War I' - knowledge didn't prevent it happening. Why did the 'leaders', with the notable example of Churchill, not see what was unfolding in Germany in the short few years from 1935 to 1939? Why did the US not understand the malign dynamic of the Vietnam War during the 1960s - and its consequences for Asia and the global financial system? Why did 'leaders' not envisage the catastrophic impact of the Iraq invasion? Now, consider this recent statement by Nato: "Since 2014 Allies have implemented the biggest increase in collective defence since the Cold War… Four robust multinational battalions to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland ... a brigade in Romania … further steps to improve cyber-defences, civil-preparedness and to defend against ballistic missile attack … extend Nato's training mission in Iraq and to broaden (its) role in the Central Mediterranean … deploy Nato's Awac surveillance aircraft to support the Global Coalition to counter Isil…" Now read the Nato Communique issued after last weekend. This is in just two years. The scale and scope of this process has largely gone unremarked. So too have the ironies: of more "training" in Iraq, of support for a "Global Coalition to counter Isil" when we know that it was the military invasion of Iraq that largely created Isil, of "defensive missile systems" ostensibly operated by Nato, which as a recent article in the 'Wall Street Journal' points out, "are essentially American initiatives" - and can be redeployed in hours as a long-range offensive system.
The purported justification for this new militarisation of Europe is the intervention of Russia in Ukraine, culminating in the annexation of the Crimean peninsula and its re-integration into Russia.
What is inferred by Nato from this is that 'a resurgent Russia' poses an existential threat to Europe. It doesn't stand up. It also puts fundamental reform of the EU - and peace - in jeopardy. The sensitivities of Poland and the Baltic states to a military threat from Russia are understandable. But that does not mean the argument driving militarisation is robust. Nor does it mean that their interests, and the interests of peace and stability in Europe, are well served by this militarisation of Europe.
Russia is not the USSR. The rebuilding of its economy and infrastructure, including the modernisation of its defence capability, under President Putin does not remotely equate to a threat to its neighbours.
The military capability of the US dwarfs that of Russia, in terms of assets and the number of bases from which to project those assets. Russia's defence budget is a fraction of that of the US.
Moreover, the track record, and legacy, of Western military intervention in recent decades demonstrably poses a much greater threat to global peace and stability compared with Russia. But indeed any such comparisons are pitiless and, everywhere, add up to incalculable suffering. The decision by the EU to facilitate accession to the EU by Ukraine and, before that Georgia, was foolish and provocative beyond belief. It was foolish because the expansion of the EU has created a 'Union' so unwieldy and overextended in its governance as to pose a threat - now all too evident - to its very existence.
Reflect, for a moment, on a 'Union' that also included Ukraine and Georgia. To compound that by facilitating accession to the EU - and, by extension, participation in Nato-led security arrangements - of nations bonded to Russia geographically, historically and in terms of language and culture, went way beyond provocation.
It has kick-started a vicious circle of ratchetingup 'defence' spending. The deployment by Nato of men, heavy equipment and missile systems effectively encircling Russia will inevitably elicit a response.
We have seen this kind of dynamic before - it is taking Europe to a bleak place.
The militarisation of the EU has been rapid, largely invisible and facilitated by self-serving propaganda. Diplomacy provides a better basis for engaging with Russia as a European power, with shared interests at a time of global uncertainty.
Militarisation, now unleashed, threatens Europe.
Economist Ray Kinsella is Professor of Banking and Financial Services, and Healthcare at UCD
We have seen this  ;  ;  kind of dynamic  ;  ;  before - it is  ;  ;  taking Europe to  ;  ;  a bleak place.  ;  ;  " ;


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); POLAND (79%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               340 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The pros and cons of Brexit for your pocket; Cheaper British imports, the return of cross-border shopping, tumbling pension values and the loss of Sepa-facilitated ease of moving money are among the potential repercussions

BYLINE: Conor Pope

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1391 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: We would like to be able to say the dust has now settled on the Brexit vote and everything has returned to normal. But it hasn't and it probably won't for quite some time - if, indeed, it ever does. But with the passage of time, clearer pictures always emerge, and now might be as good a time as any to leave aside all the political and economic shenanigans and the big-picture stuff and see what it might mean for Irish consumers.
As with most things, there are reasons to be cheerful and reasons to be glum.
1 This time last year £1 was worth about EUR 1.45. This time last week £1 was worth about EUR 1.17. Is it any wonder that UK-based online outlets such as Asos, which prices all it sells in sterling, struggled to cope with demand in the wake of Brexit as canny consumers from the euro zone sought out bargain buys. 
It wasn't just the online world that saw a dramatic shift. Almost overnight cross-border shopping became significantly more attractive - at least for people living within striking distance of the Border. And if sterling continues to weaken, the allure of cheaper goods in the North will widen. "It could be that we see Irish shoppers return to old habits," says Georgieann Harrington, insight director at Kantar Worldpanel. "During the recession many headed across the Border in search of better value at UK retailers in Northern Ireland. Cross-border shopping accounted for only 0.3 per cent of Irish grocery sales in the latest 12-week period, but at the peak of the recession this stood at 4.1 per cent."
This might be good news (at least in the short term) for consumers, but it is bad for retailers and for the tax take, which ultimately makes it bad news for everyone. 
2 Last week the Department of Finance warned that VAT on the sale of goods is likely to fall in the months ahead. "We would expect, later on in the year, and again it depends on the strength of sterling, that we will probably see some linkage across to Northern Ireland in terms of VAT, and people [will] go and shop there," a spokesman at the department said.
3 The cost of goods imported into the Republic from our nearest neighbour will fall if sterling stays weak. Cheaper prices may or may not be passed on to consumers - if past evidence is anything to go by, it will be passed on to some degree but not by as much as it should be. While savings on imports from the UK will be welcomed by many, lower-cost imports will make things considerably tougher for Irish brands doing business here and there.
4 For the best part of 100 years, people in Ireland and Britain have been able to travel between the two islands without the need for any documentation. That free movement could come to a shuddering halt if the wishes of many Leave voters come to pass. One of the key reasons many UK voters opted to leave the EU was fears over immigration. While Leave voters may not have had Irish people in mind when expressing themselves at the ballot box, if they want to curb immigration they are going to have to set up border controls. And since the Republic of Ireland is the only place - apart from Spain, with Gibraltar - that shares a land border with the UK, consumers in this part of the world will probably be hit hardest by the changes.
5 Irish people who have the misfortune to fall ill in the UK could also feel the sting of Brexit. Under EU rules, all Irish citizens can take advantage of the NHS once they have a European Health Insurance Card (Ehic). If and when Brexit happens, that could change, and we could be treated as international travellers and be expected to pay for our healthcare (which might help us feel like we're at home).
6 Few consumers will feel the negative impact of Brexit more than those who are approaching retirement right now. Irish pension funds are worth more than EUR 110 billion, and about a quarter of all the cash has been invested in UK and EU stock markets, which have taken a hammering over recent weeks. Market peaks and troughs are inevitable, and share prices will climb again, but a sustained slump will still take thousands out of many Irish people's pension pots. It would be wrong to overstate the carnage, however, as most people who are very close to retirement will have their pension pots invested in cash and government bonds, which have not been hit so hard.
7 While there will be no overnight changes, the UK's exit from the EU could see Irish citizens struggling to relocate to our closest neighbour. It seems unlikely that Irish citizens currently in the UK will be affected (not even the most hard-line of Tory Leavers could seriously think deporting millions of EU citizens would be a good idea). But in the future, people may find the roads leading to London (and Manchester, Swansea, Liverpool and - whisper it - Newry) considerably harder to settle in.
8 On the plus side, the vote could see the Republic become an infinitely more attractive base for multinationals and financial houses with large suitcases of cash to spend. And what could they not love about us? We have an educated, English-speaking population, an economy that is doing well (fingers crossed) and we will remain members of one of the world's most powerful trading blocs. And Dublin is less than an hour's flight from London.
9 Earlier this month the European Consumer Centre in Ireland issued an alarming statement in which it reminded consumers that their rights under EU legislation had not changed because of the UK decision to leave the European Union.
It was alarming because the centre felt it necessary to issue the warning after it received "worrying reports that some UK-based traders have refused to refund Irish online consumers, citing the outcome of the Brexit referendum on June 23rd as the reason.
It cited the example of one Irish consumer who bought a dress from a UK-based trader that did not fit properly. The woman then contacted the trader to exercise her right under EU law for a 14 calendar-day "cooling-off" period, under which a consumer does not have to give any reason to return the goods and seek a full refund. The trader refused to give the refund on the basis that Britain was leaving the EU and that EU consumer law would no longer apply.
"ECC Ireland would like to remind consumers that they have the same EU consumer rights today as they did before the UK referendum and traders should not be using Brexit as a reason for not giving legitimate refunds, repairs or replacements, delivery of an item, or carrying out other customer-relation services," its communications officer, Martina Nee, said. "Do not let Brexit be used as an attempt to deter you from availing of your consumer rights. It's business as usual until further notice."
10 At the end of April the cost of mobile phone roaming fell, as an EU- imposed charging cap came into effect ahead of a full ban next year. The cap means operators can't charge us more than five cent a minute for voice calls, two cent for text messages and five cent per megabyte of data. The rule, of course, only applies when roaming with the EU. If the UK were to leave the EU then suddenly making calls, sending texts or mindlessly scanning Facebook while doing your cross-border shopping in Newry could end up costing a pretty penny. 
11 European legislation gives air passengers stranded or otherwise hung out to dry significant protection. Under EU regulation 261, airlines must offer passengers affected by cancellations a full refund or a rerouting on the next available flight or at a later time that suits the passenger. If a passenger opts for a refund, the airline's responsibility ends there. If they ask to be put on the next available flight, the airline must provide care and assistance until the affected passenger can be flown out. While the UK would probably introduce similar legislation for passengers using its airports, probably is not definitely. 
12 A British exit from the EU could lead to a British exit from the single European payments area (Sepa), which put manners on banks that used to charge ridiculous fees for transferring money from one European account to another. It made electronic transfers across all Sepa states cheaper and faster and gave consumers greater control over their finances than ever before. It would be a shame if people moving money to and from the UK were to lose all the benefits all of a sudden. 


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (77%); IRELAND (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               341 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Two candidates must set out their Brexit strategy

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 127 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Having read your editorial " Britain needs a real debate about the meaning of Brexit " (July 8) and all the associated coverage, it is quite clear that the two remaining Conservative candidates for prime minister must set out their strategies for Brexit in the weeks ahead. Both are seemingly set against an early general election and, in truth, the associated instability would cause further economic damage.
It follows that the candidates need to speak to the country at large not just the electorate of party members. Exhortations to be positive and look to the sunny uplands ahead simply will not suffice. We need to know what kind of future they have in mind for the country and, crucially, how they propose to get there.
John Murray
Mayfield, E Sussex, UK


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               342 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What's next for Brexit Britain? [...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; OFFERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 29 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Red Box What's next for Brexit Britain? Wake up to our free morning email Matt Chorley guides you through the day's essential political stories www.thetimes.co.uk /redboxemail


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               343 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday 3:06 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: When might Theresa May replace David Cameron in No 10?; Cameron's remaining time in office could now be short, with May likely to take over quickly to steer the UK's Brexit strategy

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 727 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The whittling down of the Conservative leadership contest to one candidate - Theresa May - means that David Cameron will be leaving No 10 somewhat earlier than 9 September, the date on which the Tories had been due to announce their new leader.
Cameron's remaining time in office may now be short, but there is no constitutional requirement that he leaves at precisely the moment May is pronounced leader of the Conservatives by the party's backbench 1922 Committee. Ultimately, the prime minister is the MP appointed by the Queen on the basis that she believes they can command a majority in the Commons.
 Related:  Theresa May set to be PM after Leadsom quits leadership race - Politics live
In practice, there are likely to be private understandings reached on Monday between Buckingham Palace, Downing Street and the Cameron family on the timetable for his departure. They will try to reach that understanding as quickly as possible. It looks as if the Queen will return to London on Tuesday for the necessary audiences - and it is possible that civil service concern over the impression of a government drifting rudderless means that May will be propelled into No 10 very quickly.
Cameron is a pretty flexible character and although May's personal relation with him is not the warmest, she is likely to be flexible about the date on which she moves in and his family move out. Cameron still owns a house in Notting Hill, and he has already asked the tenants to leave, but he may not be able to ask them to leave immediately.
A period of transition is certainly not without recent precedent. Gordon Brown prided himself on a stable and orderly transition of the premiership from Tony Blair to himself in 2007, and despite the surprising foreshortening of the Tory leadership contest, there is no reason to expect May's elevation to the premiership will be anything but constitutionally orderly.
Cameron may have hoped to represent the UK at the G20 summit of world leaders on 4-5 September in Hangzhou, China, a valedictory chance for the prime minister to rub shoulders with world leaders including Barack Obama one last time before he handed power to his successor. 
But that seems unlikely now: it looks as if Cameron will be allowed to take a final prime minister's questions on Wednesday before drawing his premiership to a close.
Apart from that there was little in the diary for Cameron to remain in office for, and he probably expected to spend the summer on an extended holiday as the Conservatives, Labour and Ukip fought out their leadership battles in a hot political August. It was also expected he would make some speeches trying to summate his domestic and foreign policy legacy. He had already let it be known that he would not be standing down as an MP before the general election in 2020.
The two individuals who will be most concerned by the foreshortened timetable will be May herself and Oliver Letwin, the Cabinet Office minister given responsibility for preparing an options paper on Brexit for the incoming prime minister.
 Related:  Theresa May: unpredictable, moralistic and heading to No 10
May's ideas outside her portfolio are not deeply formed, and her speech on Monday largely derived from one she had previously made in 2013, and was heavily influenced by her former special adviser Nick Timothy. If Timothy has a political hero it is Joseph Chamberlain, the Birmingham politician and great advocate of the working poor.
May will need time to think through her wider agenda, and a longer leadership contest would have given her that thinking time. She has now lost that, and will instead be surrounded by civil servants mapping out the big issues she faces, including an imminent Commons vote on Trident.
She will also seek to truncate conversations about the formation of a new cabinet. The absence of a mandate from party members will arguably make her more keen to accommodate the leave tendency in her party.
She will face pressure from European leaders demanding that she triggers article 50, the clause that starts the EU Brexit negotiations. EU leaders were willing to wait for a new leader for that to be triggered, but may now demand the new prime minister acts urgently so the uncertainty is ended.
May has to work out a negotiating strategy for Brexit, and as it stands will have only the half-formed thoughts of Letwin to advise her. 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EAST CHINA (69%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               344 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: World braced for Brexit pensions fallout

BYLINE: Aliya Ram

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1049 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Some of the world's largest pension schemes, from Australia to Denmark, have been forced to issue emergency guidance to retirees following the UK's historic vote to leave the EU - with some warning that members could see cuts to their benefits.
The retirement funds have been pushed into action over fears that the British exit from the EU is hurting global growth expectations and exacerbating an already troubling pension funding crisis.
With Bank of England governor Mark Carney now promising a "whatever it takes" approach to boost growth in the UK and pressure on the European Central Bank and US Federal Reserve to shore up confidence in markets, the prospect of interest rate rises is small.
Pension schemes appear increasingly despondent about what this means for their portfolios - and ultimately their members. They have long been hoping for an end to low interest rate policies, which they say have dragged down returns.
ABP , Europe's largest pension fund, which manages $350bn of assets on behalf of 2.8m government and education employees in the Netherlands, says its ability to meet future pension obligations is now in "the danger zone".
"Although ABP will only decide at the end of the year, the prospect of a benefit cut for members is indeed more likely than it was before the vote," a spokesperson says.
Pension funds calculate their coverage ratios - their ability to meet future payments to pensioners - based on the interest rates of high-quality corporate and government bonds. If rates are projected to be lower, pension plans need more assets to cover the benefits they expect to pay in future. A spokesperson for the PME pension fund for 600,000 Dutch workers in the metal and electrical industries says its low funding ratio is likely to lead to pension reductions in 2017.
"We tell our members that low interest rates make our pension liabilities sky high and our coverage ratio too low," she says.
Retirement funds are also concerned about lower yields on higher-rated sovereign and corporate bonds, to which they are heavily exposed, after many international investors flocked to safer assets following the referendum outcome.
The yield on US 10-year Treasury notes closed below 1.4 per cent for the first time on record last week, the latest example of the big falls in global government bond yields following the Brexit vote.
A spokesperson for PFZW, the second-largest Dutch pension fund, says the referendum result had a "negative impact" on the scheme's coverage ratio, partly because its investments in stocks "took a hit".
"The fallout of the referendum on financial markets does not help and could make a cut [to benefits] even more likely," says the spokesperson for PFZW, who adds that all of the scheme's 2.5m members will be affected if deficits move further into the red.
Gerard Riemen, director of the Dutch Pension Federation, is pessimistic about the ability of other Dutch funds to find returns and avoid benefit cuts given their exposure to European stock markets, which have fallen following the referendum.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of Europe's largest and most liquid companies has fallen 6 per cent over the past month, while Germany's Dax index has dropped 5.8 per cent.
Mr Riemen says: "What is the alternative to [investing in] the UK and the eurozone? We feel the pain, we have low funding ratios, we tell our members that there is no hope that funding ratios will go up very quickly. We know that pension benefits [are likely to] be cut next year."
Elsewhere in the world, the industry is trying to make contingency plans. The Irish Association of Pension Funds held an emergency meeting last week to discuss the operational impact of the vote on Irish schemes.
US pension schemes have also been hurt by the political turmoil in the UK and elsewhere in Europe following the Brexit vote and its impact on the markets.
The $60bn Massachusetts state pension fund warned that the value of its assets would likely fall by around 2 per cent as a result of Britain's decision to leave the EU.
"The Brexit vote outcome will probably have a material negative impact on the [Massachusetts] fund in the short term as world markets sell off," said Cayenne Isaksen, director at public relations firm O'Neill and Associates.
The state fund has estimated that in a worst-case scenario, which involves the break-up of the EU, the value of the fund's assets could fall 9 per cent. The pension scheme said it had contacted all of its external fund managers to discuss their investment strategies in the days after the vote.
The aggregate funding ratio for US corporate pension funds, meanwhile, fell to 76 per cent at the end of June, the lowest level of the past 12 months, according to Wilshire Associates. The investment advisory firm blamed the fall in funding ratios on the British referendum and the consequent drop in US Treasury yields, which has in turn increased US corporate pension schemes' liabilities by 2.5 per cent.
British pension plans, however, are expected to face the most significant challenges as sponsor companies tighten their belts.
Many UK schemes are already contending with costly payments to final salary retirees, who have been promised guaranteed pension payouts in retirement based on their earnings and years of service.
The concern is that the pension funds that have seen the biggest falls in the value of their assets will need emergency cash injections from their sponsoring companies in order to meet promises to members.
But pension trustees are nervous that their sponsoring companies will be reluctant to provide extra cash given they are themselves under increased financial pressure following the vote.
UK housebuilders that have seen millions of pounds wiped off their stock market values are thought to be a particular concern. British Land and Taylor Wimpey did not respond to requests for comment. Land Securities and Persimmon declined to comment.
According to consultants Mercer, the combined pension deficits of the largest 350 companies on the London Stock Exchange has jumped to a record £131bn - up from £107bn before June 23.
Alan Baker, Mercer's head of defined benefit pension advice, says: "Clearly we're going to see some more schemes fall into the [Pension Protection Fund, the lifeboat for capsized corporate pension funds]."


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AU Australia; DK Denmark; GB United Kingdom; XS Australasia; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               345 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 11, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: You can't cherry pick EU laws in Brexit talks, Merkel warns

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain will not be allowed to "cherry pick" EU laws when it negotiates a new arrangement after Brexit, Angela Merkel warned yesterday.
In an interview with the ZDF TV channel, the German chancellor said that she expected Britain to activate Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty to begin the formal process of leaving the union.
"The decision has been taken ... and the next step is - and Britain will do this only when they have a new prime minister - to invoke Article 50," she said. "I expect that to happen. I deal with reality and I firmly expect that application will be made."
Ms Merkel added: "We have spoken to Britain and made clear there will be no negotiations with Britain until they have made their application, and there will be no cherry picking."
Meanwhile, Jean-Claude Juncker has admitted that he had a bet with a British colleague on the Brussels executive that Britain would vote to leave the European Union.
In an interview with Der Spiegel magazine, the president of the European Commission said that, unlike most EU officials, he knew the referendum would result in a Brexit vote. Mr Juncker, who was talking with Martin Schulz, president of the European parliament, interjected when Mr Schulz ruefully said he had "bet that the British would stay in the EU".
Mr Juncker said: "I put my money on Brexit." He said that Lord Hill of Oareford, Britain's EU commissioner, "still owes me a pound".
Lord Hill, the financial services commissioner, formally steps down on Friday. Sir Julian King, his successor, will meet Mr Juncker today to discuss taking up Britain's seat in the college of commissioners, the EU's executive body. He will hold the post until the current commission's five-year mandate ends in November 2019 or when Britain concludes exit negotiations.
Britain has now been stripped of the key financial services policy post and, according to sources, David Cameron has asked for Sir Julian to be appointed as environment commissioner. However, Mr Juncker is considering whether to deny Sir Julian a policy portfolio, signalling his hardline approach to British exit negotiations.
In the interview both Mr Schulz and Mr Juncker spoke of their close political relationship as the heads of the EU's main two institutions and expressed frustration with Mr Cameron.
"Primary responsibility for Brexit lies with British Conservatives, who took an entire continent hostage," said Mr Schulz. "First, David Cameron initiated the referendum in order to secure his post. Now Conservatives want to delay the start of exit negotiations until they've held a party conference."
Both Mr Juncker and Mr Schulz have angered some national governments, including the German one, by arguing that the response to the British vote should be "more Europe".
Last week Mr Schulz and Sigmar Gabriel, the leader of Germany's Social Democrats, called for EU treaty changes to create a full-blown European government.
Mr Juncker said he backed the plan but that it would have to wait until the current surge in populism and euroscepticism had subsided. "The proposal in and of itself is convincing," he said.
"To implement it, the European treaties would have to be amended ... that cannot currently be implemented due to the mood on the continent."


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (90%); BELGIUM (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               346 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 10:44 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: your new favourite biscuit brand?; Food and drink companies are falling over themselves to trademark 'Brexit'. But why?

BYLINE: Alexi Duggins

SECTION: LIFE AND STYLE

LENGTH: 485 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Isn't it delicious how our country has turned into a nightmarish soap opera? Doesn't it just set your tummy rumbling when you think about the 57% rise in reported racist abuse in the post-Brexit weeks, or that lark when Boris Johnson decided to compare the EU with Hitler ? No, me neither. 
Biscuit makers, however, disagree. As do half a dozen other food and drink brands that have been racing to trademark the term "Brexit" for their product since the UK voted in favour of leaving the EU. British businesses vying to claim the term include a brand of tea, a small London-based brewer and a Welsh biscuit producer. In the US, companies attempting to make their product seem delicious by associating it with a political debacle include a company specialising in dietary and nutritional supplements and the Boston-based craft beer brewery Sam Adams, which wants to use it for the name of a "hard cider".
"It certainly seems to be the trademark of the month, put it that way," says Kate O'Rourke, president of the Institute of Trade Mark Attorneys. "With the exception of the two rival alcohol brands, most of them should be able to trademark it, as you can have the same trademark registered for different products. In fact, someone already registered the term last March for a brand of mobile phone holders and crockery."
What is these companies' reasons for thinking the nation is keen for its snacks to remind citizens of the perilous state of the economy and government? That's unclear. Sam Adams claims to be "not sure exactly how we would use the name yet", beyond it being for a cider. Most other companies are similarly silent. Although, according to O'Rourke, "the Welsh biscuit company claims that 'it might take our mind off the national nervous breakdown we're currently experiencing in the UK'."
In fact, naming food and drink after Brexit seems such a daft idea, there's a strong chance that these products will never even see the light of day. After all, most of the trademark applications were made within 48 hours of the result coming in - which feels much more like ill-thought-out opportunism than considered marketing. "You often see people file for trademarks thinking it's a good idea and then reconsidering in the cold light of day," says O'Rourke. "Businesses may find themselves wondering if it's a good idea to try to promote a Brexit product when 48% of the country doesn't agree with the result." 
Still, even if none of these products hits the shelves, prepare for one very odd consequence. The company that has applied to trademark the tea is based in the outskirts of Hamburg. So no matter how well Brexit does in promoting Britishness, no matter how strongly it rails against the increasing Teutonic influence of the EU and attempts to proudly champion the nation's identity, there's one thing that will be inescapable. Brexit's official English breakfast tea will be made by Germans. 


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               347 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 1:05 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: It's not 'business as usual' until Brexit. UK scientists are already feeling the effects; The government must provide immediate assurance that UK scientists will be able to take part in EU funded research after Brexit - or risk being marginalised

BYLINE: Joe Gorman

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 914 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The flagship research and innovation programme of the European Commission, Horizon 2020, is the eighth in a series spanning the last four decades. Taking part in such programmes has become an integral part of research and innovation in the UK, and universities have already expressed dismay about the effects of their potential exclusion from it post-Brexit. But it is not only universities that are worried. Horizon 2020 actively encourages involvement from industry, small companies and others in projects that directly address societal issues from healthcare and transport, to environment etc.), or that support more competitive industry and help create jobs.
The EU referendum result throws UK participation in Horizon 2020 into doubt. Jo Johnson has claimed that it is "business as usual" for now as the UK is still a member of the EU. Sadly, it's not as simple as that.
The effect of the referendum may be more immediate than people realise. Horizon 2020 funding is granted to consortia, not individual organisations, and there is a formal requirement that at least three countries must be involved in any given proposal. So the first step in attempting to obtain funding is to either build an international consortium yourself, or to be invited into one by someone else. 
Building a consortium and producing a competitive proposal typically takes about 9-12 months. It then takes about another 9-12 months for the commission to evaluate proposals and establish formal contracts for the lucky winners. So if you have an idea for a project today, it will be about 18 to 24 months from now that your project would actually start. But that is also approximately when Brexit negotiations will be reaching completion, and the effects will start to become real. 
 Related:  UK scientists dropped from EU projects because of post-Brexit funding fears
Think of this from the point of view of a researcher outside the UK trying, right now, to put together a consortium. If I invite a partner from the UK, what might happen when the project actually starts? If the UK fails to make an agreement with the EU, the likely result is that the partner would have to leave the project due to funding being withdrawn. And that is something that, as project manager, I most definitely do not want to happen. I would have to find a replacement partner and try to integrate them into a project that has already decided its direction and technical approach. That is difficult, time consuming and costly, and represents a significant risk to the project. I know from experience, both as a project manager and a commission official, that loss of partners is at best a challenge, and sometimes fatal for projects. 
What if it is the other way round, and a UK partner invites me to join a consortium? Then it would be even worse: the loss of the project manager is an even bigger risk. 
So how are people around Europe going to behave, in the short term, regarding the involvement of partners from the UK in new consortia? My expectation is that people will at the very least think twice. Who wants to risk involving a partner that may be forced to abandon ship while the project is running? And these concerns apply now. I already know of several concrete cases where this is an issue for consortia. UK partners will not be shunned completely: there will be cases where the potential benefits outweigh the risk. But remember that researchers around Europe have worked for years in international consortia, and have extensive networks of contacts. It will usually not be difficult for them to find good alternative partners from countries where the risk of withdrawal does not apply.
Politicians may protest, and commission officials may make conciliatory noises about processes proceeding as before. But they overlook the fact that the process of forming consortia is completely unregulated; it is based entirely on personal networks and confidential communications. There are no rules: just individual organisations deciding with whom they choose to work. It does not help if UK organisations are entitled to funding if they face difficulties in joining consortia in the first place. 
All this can be avoided easily if the UK government provides a firm assurance, right now, that UK partners will be able to take part in EU funded research programmes after Brexit. A simple but firm statement is all that is needed: the details of the precise mechanism are not so important. One possibility is the Norwegian model in which Norway pays a fixed fee to the EU for Norwegian organisations to be able to take part in EU research programmes, just like member states - including entitlement to funding. An alternative is the Swiss model, in which Swiss organisations are allowed to take part - but without funding from Brussels. The Swiss government guarantees to provide funding directly to Swiss organisations that are members of successful consortia. 
So is it going to be the Norwegian model, the Swiss model - or something else? Please, UK government, less us know soon, so that we know how best to deal with UK partners when building consortia. 
                     Joe Gorman is a senior scientist at SINTEF, Norway's leading research institute. He has spent 25 years working in EU funded projects: building consortia, writing proposals and managing projects. He previously worked as an official in the European Commission, administering research programmes and overseeing execution of projects.                    


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               348 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 7:45 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The Guardian view on the Brexit recession: cut rates and scrap austerity to save the economy; To mitigate the Brexit slump, the Bank of England must drop rates. But even more importantly Theresa May has to become the anti-austerity PM

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 557 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Economic history is about to be made. We know this because none other than the governor of the Bank of England has told us as much. Speaking a few days ago, Mark Carney said: "The economic outlook has deteriorated and some monetary policy easing will likely be required over the summer." You need no degree in Threadneedle-speak to decipher that: Mr Carney will cut interest rates, perhaps as soon as this Thursday. Remember that the all-important Bank rate is already at its lowest level since the central bank was founded in 1694. When Mr Carney's predecessor Mervyn King dropped the key rate to 0.5% in March 2009 it was an emergency response to the collapse of the banks. The fact that his successor plans to cut further says plenty about the extraordinary headwinds the UK now faces. Yet slashing rates more will almost certainly not be enough on its own to ward off the threats that now loom over Britain.
What are those economic threats? They are, to use a Rumsfeld-ism, known unknowns. We can sketch out their scope; we cannot properly assess their scale. Not until the economic indicators published next month will we start to glean helpful clues about the sharpness of our downturn since the Brexit vote. Nevertheless, it is more than likely that Britain voted itself into a recession on 23 June; just how big and lasting depends a lot on what happens in the next few weeks and months. In the run-up to the referendum, multinational businesses would have held off from major investments in the UK. The vote, and the turmoil and uncertainty it has produced, will have poured further ice on those plans. Plants and distribution centres will stay stuck on the drawing board, pounds in budgets will go unspent. The investment slump alone will badly dent growth. Add to that the scenario well described by Mr Carney: "Households could defer consumption ... lowering labour demand and causing unemployment to rise." This without considering the financial instability that the Bank has been working to minimise. For each of these negatives, it's hard to see a positive counterweight. About 60% of the UK GDP derives from consumption, and there is no way that a hit there will be offset by a boost to exports - not with the world economy so weak.
Put these factors together and the case for an imminent and large rate cut is incontrovertible. The Bank should drop rates, starting this Thursday. But while historic, even a cut would not achieve what might be expected in normal times. Interest rates are already very near what's called the zero lower bound - the point at which cuts will not stimulate further growth. As for the Bank going in for more quantitative easing, £375bn has already been pumped into the financial system, benefiting the rich and pumping up London house prices. The real boost to growth will only come with a big burst of public spending on infrastructure, services and benefits - the areas that have suffered most under austerity. Theresa May has already talked about infrastructure bonds, but she will need to go a lot further than that. That may be ideologically uncomfortable for the Tories, now seeking ways to mitigate economic and social damage from the referendum they called. But they should consider the words of Mr Carney: "One uncomfortable truth is that there are limits to what the Bank of England can do."


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               349 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: AIB update warns of Brexit effect

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 314 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: AIB has warned the UK's vote to exit the EU could have "a material impact" on its business, according to an update of bond documents by the bank. 
"The nature, timing and impact of a UK exit from the EU on the UK economy and trade is not fully known but may have negative consequences for the group and consequently the issuer both in terms of its UK and Irish operations and impacts on the UK and Irish economies," AIB said in an update to the base prospectus for its EUR 20 billion mortgage-covered securities programme. 
"The regulatory position of the group's operations in the UK may also become uncertain. Consequently, the UK's exit from the EU could have a material adverse effect on the issuer's and the group's business, financial condition and prospects."
The warning is the first of a wave of bond document updates across Irish banks to highlight the risks to business following the UK's decision to leave the EU on June 23rd. 
AIB and other lenders had previously highlighted similar risks ahead of the referendum. The bank had £8.4 billion (EUR 9.9 billion) of gross UK loans, including its Northern Irish unit First Trust Bank, at the end of December, according to its annual report. That equates to about 14 per cent of its total loan book. More than 40 per cent of rival Bank of Ireland's loan book is based in the UK. 
Still, Davy analyst Emer Lang highlighted in a note to clients that both banks have "relatively low" exposure to the UK commercial property lending market, which is a focal point for investor nervousness after Brexit. 
Bank of Ireland had EUR 5.2 billion of such loans in December, while AIB's comparable portfolio was EUR 3.4 billion. 
While Minster for Finance Michael Noonan has said he expects to sell a 25 per cent stake in the State-owned bank early next year, the timing of the flotation will ultimately depend on the health of financial markets. 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (78%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               350 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: A new prime minister - now comes the hard part; Theresa May will need all her toughness and guile to negotiate Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 594 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The campaign has turned into a coronation. Theresa May , the vicar's daughter and hardline home secretary, has swept aside rivals and will enter Downing Street on Wednesday, less than three weeks after the British people voted narrowly to leave the EU. After a tumultuous interregnum, a semblance of order has returned to British politics.
At 59, Mrs May becomes only the second female British prime minister. Like Margaret Thatcher, she assumes the Conservative leadership at a time of national crisis. The country remains divided by the referendum result which has put the integrity of the union at risk. The threat of a recession is real and the new terms of the UK's relationship with the EU highly uncertain.
The UK desperately needs a period of stability in which a new government led by Mrs May can devise a plan for withdrawing from the EU and forging a new trading relationship with Europe and the rest of the world. In this respect, Andrea Leadsom, the last Brexiter left in the Tory leadership race, deserves credit for dropping out this week. She manifestly lacked the experience and support of parliamentary colleagues to take on the top job.
Mrs May has yet to spell out her approach to the forthcoming European negotiations. She has declared that "Brexit means Brexit" and ruled out a second referendum. But she has not explained where she stands on the trade-off between restricting freedom of movement and maintaining access to the single European market. That is the one issue which cannot be ducked.
In two other respects, however, Mrs May has hinted at her priorities. Sensibly, she has insisted that Article 50, the red button for exit, will not be pressed until early next year at least. This gives her time to formulate Britain's negotiating position before formal divorce talks with Brussels begin.
Second, she has recognised the need to deal with public disaffection exposed during the referendum. On the fiscal side, she has rightly abandoned George Osborne's commitment to achieving a budget surplus by 2020. With Britain facing a post-Brexit shock, fiscal tightening is counterproductive. Mrs May has also called for a new settlement with business . She wants greater accountability for boards, particularly on executive pay. She has even suggested adopting European-style worker representation on the boards of leading companies.
All this may be a tactic to appeal to disaffected Tories and to capture the political centre ground when the Labour party remains in thrall to a hard-left leader , Jeremy Corbyn. It would be worrying were Mrs May to combine these new ideas with her longstanding aversion to immigration. Within the EU or outside, the UK must remain a magnet for people with energy and skills.
Mrs May served for six years at the Home Office, traditionally a graveyard of political reputations. She was not only a survivor, but was also said to be one of the very few ministers strong enough to say no to David Cameron. The office of prime minister presents a challenge on a different scale.
Mrs May will have to build a team and delegate. The first task is to decide who will lead the Brexit talks with Brussels. This person has to avoid the grandstanding that characterised the Leave campaign. The minister for Brexit must combine realism with diplomatic guile in order to tease out what is possible before Article 50 is triggered, irreversibly.
At that moment, Mrs May could seek a mandate for the terms of such a deal in a general election. At the very least, she will need broad parliamentary consent for her negotiating strategy.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); BELGIUM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               351 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 2:40 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Asos to reap Brexit benefits after fall in pound; Global online clothing retailer embraces weaker sterling with big rise in overseas sales forecast to more than offset predicted dip in UK purchases

BYLINE: Sean Farrell

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 339 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Asos expects to benefit from the fall in the pound's value after the UK vote to leave the EU because sterling's slide has made its clothes cheaper for US and European customers.
The online fashion retailer also said that because more than half its sales come from outside the UK it is protected against a downturn in demand from British consumers.
The pound has fallen about 10% since the 23 June referendum, reflecting fears about an economic slowdown. It has plunged to a series of 31-year lows against the dollar, with some economists expecting it to remain low as the economy slows.
In the short term the pound's fall has been good for some companies that sell goods and services abroad because it gives overseas customers more buying power. Asos covers most countries in the world and has expanded by launching websites targeted at the US, Germany and other markets.
Nick Beighton, Asos's chief executive, said: "Our sales prices which are denominated off sterling now look cheaper to the US customer and look cheaper to the European customer. What we think that will give us is a greater sales trajectory."
 Related:  Brexit fallout - the business winners... and losers
Beighton said it was too early to predict the long-term effects of Brexit but that in the immediate term improved sales would more than make up for the higher cost of imported raw materials such as cotton.
The gain from post-referendum currency swings is a marked contrast with two years ago when the strong pound and lack of flexibility in Asos's pricing outside the UK forced it to slash prices, triggering profit warnings.
Beighton made his comments as Asos reported better than expected trading so far this financial year. Total retail sales rose 30% to £500.5m in the four months to 30 June. Asos's first half finishes at the end of August.
UK sales rose 28% and international sales increased 31% as trading accelerated in the US, the EU and other overseas markets. Asos said it expects annual sales growth at the upper end of its previously stated range of 20-25%.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               352 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 10:05 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bank of England was warned about Brexit property fund problems; Documents show FCA twice told Bank about potentially serious outflows from commercial property trusts and that funds could be suspended

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 398 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Bank of England was warned of the possibility that commercial property funds might be suspended because of the rate of withdrawals prompted by the vote of Brexit.
                     Documents released by Threadneedle Street show that policymakers were told in meetings on 28 June and 1 July of the outflows from funds investing in commercial property.
These funds usually offer instant access to cash but as they are invested in properties such as office blocks and warehouses, their assets are hard to sell quickly. Since 4 July, seven funds have taken steps to either stop withdrawals by suspending trading or reducing the fund's value. Aberdeen Asset Management is cutting the value of its find by 17%, the largest reduction yet. 
The record of the meeting of the financial policy committee (FPC) - established to look for risks in the financial system - shows that the City regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had issued a briefing on commercial property funds.
 Related:  Property fund turmoil continues as three more firms cut value
"The FPC was briefed by the FCA on the extent of outflows from these funds and on the possibility that funds could suspend redemptions in the near term," the record of meetings on 28 June and 1 July shows.
The record is published a week after the FPC announced a further £150bn would be freed up by banks to encourage lending and also warned that property funds could exacerbate movements on prices if they were forced to sell.
The FPC is chaired by the Bank of England governor, Mark Carney. The Bank also released two paragraphs redacted from the last quarterly meeting in March outlining aspects of contingency planning made ahead of the 23 June referendum.
As well as being ready to pump billions of pounds into the financial system, the Bank said "supervisors were engaging with banks, insurers and central counterparties on their contingency plans for risks related to the referendum, including for managing funding and liquidity risks in sterling and foreign currency".
"Several firms had reported that they were conducting stress tests with referendum-related strategies of varying severity." This was not reported in March as it was deemed to be against the public interest. 
Following the referendum result, banking shares fell 20% and volatility in sterling against the dollar hit its highest level in postwar history, the Bank said.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               353 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bond and Brexit to give shot in the arm to Pinewood Group

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 165 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: operating profit soared 136.3pc to £13.6m.
'Star Wars: The Force Awakens', which was partly shot in Co Kerry, and James Bond's latest incarnation in 'Spectre', filmed at its studios, saw the firm cash in on two of the largest grossing movies of last year.
Britain's exit from the European Union will be "largely mitigated" as its most significant customers are based in the United States, Pinewood said.
Chief executive Ivan Dunleavy said yesterday: "The result of the UK's referendum on membership of the EU is now known.
"In the context of our business, the decline in the sterling exchange rate is undoubtedly positive for our international customers."
Mr Dunleavy also said that five new sound stages are now operational, meaning its Buckinghamshire site in England now has capacity to take on two more blockbusters a year.
In February, Pinewood hired Rothschild to conduct a strategic review, which could conclude with the firm's sale for more than £250m. Pinewood said the review is "ongoing".


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); EUROPE (78%); UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (57%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               354 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could boost live cattle export trade to UK

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FARMING;NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 715 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: DECLAN O'BRIEN THE expansion of the lucrative live cattle export trade to Britain and Northern Ireland could be an unlikely consequence of Brexit, a farm body has claimed.
ICSA beef chairman Edmond Phelan suggested that Brexit could reignite the live trade to the UK, which had been hampered in recent years by the way British supermarkets have implemented EU country of origin labelling regulations.
"The EU labelling requirement for beef demands that the label contains details of the animal since www.birth.UK supermarkets deem that it is too complex to provide information on beef from animals born in the Republic of Ireland and finished in the UK," Mr Phelan explained.
"However, post Brexit, it will be up to the UK to draft its own labelling laws. While they might choose to keep the same rules, there will be a need to avoid flouting WTO laws on barriers to trade," he added.
Mr Phelan argued the manner in which UK supermarkets are currently handling the country-of-origin labelling issue is acceptable only because both the UK and Ireland are essentially regions within the one WTO member, the European Union.
"But if the UK is outside the EU, then the WTO could take a much closer interest in the way in which live exports between Ireland and the UK are effectively blocked," he said.
Irish exports to the North have held at around 55,000 head over the last few years, but hit a recent high of 95,000 head in 2010.
Exports to Britain reached 18,000 head in 2014 but generally ranged from 7,000 to 11,000 head since 2010.
While Mr Phelan accepted that Turkey, Italy and Spain would be the primary focus for weanling exports this year, he said all outlets had to be considered.
However, the Ulster Farmers' Union (UFU) maintained that the labelling issues remained unclear and said it was too early to speculate on how trading arrangements might develop in the post-Brexit era.
But the union's deputy president Victor Chestnutt accepted that Brexit would certainly bring "challenges and opportunities", and it was up to the farmer unions to "maximise the opportunities" on behalf of their members.
Norman Bagley of the Association of Independent Meat Suppliers in Britain was equally unsure that the live trade for Irish cattle would get a boost from Brexit.
He pointed out that the British market had become increasingly polarised, with a premium being paid for stock that met supermarket specs and qualified for the Red Tractor label.
"Yes, we could agree a way of nationalising these [Irish] cattle," he said. "But I'm not certain where the push would come from."
Cheap food Mr Phelan also cast doubt on the theory that Britain would suddenly adopt a cheap food policy post Brexit and fully open its domestic market to cheap beef imports from South America.
He pointed out that UK supermarkets have been to the forefront in adopting some of the most challenging specs and requirements for domestic and EU suppliers and will be careful to avoid allegations of double standards.
The drystock farmers' organisation urged policy makers to "think outside the box" and identify the opportunities offered by the changed trading landscape, as well as highlighting the threats.
Mr Phelan said Ireland's Brexit policy should be framed with the needs of Irish farmers in mind rather than "dancing to the tune of a few large-scale processors".
He said Brexit should not be used as an excuse to "create panic and despondency in the cattle sector" and maintained that the recent drop in the value of sterling should not be over-egged.
"Despite the hype, the drop in sterling is within the normal range of fluctuation and we have seen sterling just as weak in 2013 when beef prices here were quite strong."
IFA president Joe Healy has said meat factories are unnecessarily pulling beef price quotes on the back of Brexit, while demand from UK supermarkets remains strong.
He said the Agriculture Minister Michael Creed must intervene to stop cattle prices and confidence being eroded ahead of the Beef Forum set for Thursday, July 21.
Meat Industry Ireland has pointed out the cattle price is on a par with the UK and is currently at 111pc of the EU average.
A spokesman said the reality is that the value of sterling is now 15pc down on pre-Brexit and 25pc down on November 2015 and it has a direct impact on returns.
Graphic
The Champion of Champions prize at last weekend's Mullingar Show was won by Derrick Ford from Corrandulla, Co Galway for his Limousin cross heifer. He is pictured Mullingar Show members Paddy Donnelly, Eileen White and Joe Henson. PHOTO: JOHN MCCAULEY


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (77%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               355 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 3:40 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could take up to six years to complete, says Philip Hammond; Foreign secretary suggests future treaty with EU may require approval of 27 nation states, which could take four years

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 550 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The complexity of the UK's efforts to disentangle itself from the European Union has been made clear by the foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, who said the process might take as long as six years to complete and the possibility of signing bilateral trade deals in the interim may be limited.
Hammond was speaking in the House of Commons on Tuesday as he came under pressure to explain how the Brexit process might work. An opponent of Brexit, Hammond said during the referendum campaign that the process of leaving the EU might take longer than the second world war, and on Tuesday he did not back track from this assessment.
"The concern is this," he said. "If a future treaty between the UK and the EU 27 is deemed to be a mixed competence, it will have to be ratified by 27 national parliaments. I think I am right in saying the shortest time in which that has been done in any EU treaty is just under four years, and that is after taking into account the time it has taken to negotiate."
A mixed agreement is one that covers subject matters over which both the EU and a member state has responsibility. Lawyers would treat the agreement as mixed if, for instance, it covered not just trade - a matter of exclusively EU responsibility - but also common foreign and security policy, for which member states are also liable.
Hammond's assessment suggests that the UK might take two years from this winter - assuming that is when article 50 is triggered - to negotiate an exit agreement, and then wait a further four years for the agreement to be ratified. The flexibility of the UK in the period between the exit agreement and the ratification process is likely to be subject to dispute.
Hammond also underlined the difficulties the UK might face in negotiating new bilateral trade deals while it is still part of the EU. He told MPs: "Until we have served an article 50 notice, we remain a full, participating member of the EU and our ability to negotiate new trade agreements is restricted by the continued application of EU law until we have negotiated our exit from the EU. 
 "We have to tread a careful path having any preliminary negotiations but remain on the right aide of our international obligations."
 Related:  This post-Brexit chaos could consign Labour and the Tories to history | Lucy Webster
The Foreign Office minister Hugo Swire added: "We are aware that we do need to trade and recruit more trade negotiators. We are still members of the EU until the end of the end of the negotiations have taken place." But he added: "There is no reason not to have exploratory talks, which we have started to do."
Hammond insisted his warnings about the complexities of the Brexit process did not imply a Foreign Office desire to backtrack on the referendum result. "The next PM has made very clear that Brexit means Brexit," he said. "We will be negotiating our exit from the EU but we will also be seeking to negotiate an agreement between the UK and the EU 27 to regulate our trade and other relationships with the EU."
The government will be consulting widely with Wales, Northern Ireland, Scotland and the mayor of London on the terms of the UK's exit from the EU. Hammond did not, however, confer with his Labour counterpart Emily Thornberry on whether the Labour party would be formally consulted.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               356 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit fallout hammers Friesians by (EURO)140-250/hd IN THE KNOW

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FARMING;NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 1057 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: AS the initial shock of the Brexit result wanes, it has been replaced in gossipy conversations by endless theories on where the UK will be in a few years.
Among the farming community however there is no element of gossip only careful and considered speculation tinged with an element of fear.
Fear that our dependence on the UK market will cause prices here to suffer should the combination of a further weakening of the pound combined with the processing sectors traditional attempts to control mart prices by reducing factory prices gains further momentum.
I therefore decided this week to go back to just before the June 23 Brexit referendum to the week of June 13-19 and compare ringside prices then with now. Bear in mind Brexit was not expected to pass and the only real issue in the cattle business that week was the fact that factories were hoping to make a 5c/kg cut in prices to reduce bullocks to (EURO)4.05-4.10/ kg and heifers to between (EURO)4.15-4.20/kg.
The biggest and smallest average falls since the week of June 13-19 have occurred among the heifers with the 400-499kg animal back the most at 20c/kg or (EURO)80-100/hd. The 500-599kg section is back about half that at 9c/kg or (EURO)45-54.
The 350-399kg heifer has also taken a hard hit losing on average 19c/kg or (EURO)66-76/hd in that time, while at the factory end of the business the 600kg+ heifer is also back a minimum of (EURO)66/hd to sit on a minimum average price of (EURO)2.08/kg or (EURO)1,248/hd.
However the worst hit among the store cattle occurs in the bullock section where the 300-399kg Friesian has dropped 36c/kg or (EURO)108-143/hd to now sit on an average of (EURO)1.45/kg or from (EURO)435-578/hd.
The average price fall across all breeds in this section shows a decline of just 15c/kg or (EURO)45-60/hd despite being skewed by those Friesians.
In the 400-499kg section the average fall is 10c/kg or (EURO)40-49/ hd, while the 500-599kg bullock has lost 13c/kg or (EURO)65-78/hd on average over the last three weeks.
The 600kg+ bullock is always more exposed when the cattle trade wobbles and sees his price fall a minimum of (EURO)96/hd.
Store prices So what does all this tell us? While there have been some dramatic falls as in those lighter Friesians the reality is that the average fall in store bullock prices ranges from (EURO)40-78/hd, while store heifers are back more at (EURO)45-100/hd.
Of the factory types the 600kg+ heifer seems to have suffered less of a hit than her bullock brother at (EURO)66/hd versus (EURO)96/hd.
Allowing for factory price pulls of 15-20c/kg in both bullocks and heifers over the last three to four weeks that 600kg heifer killing out 55pc live/kg is back exactly in line with the ringside live average price.
Turning to the 600kg+ bullock the issue of who lost what and why is a bit more complex because the average price fall here hides the fact that it's the Friesians losing 0.42c/kg in the last three weeks or (EURO)252/hd that is pushing his overall average loss well up above the heifer's (EURO)66/hd to (EURO)96/hd.
1TULLOW Good weather kept some farmers away from the ringside last week which didn't help the price of plainer stock who eased back by about (EURO)20/hd. This left store bullocks at between (EURO)1.90 to (EURO)2.85/ kg and heifers on (EURO)2.25-2.40/kg, with (EURO)2.80/kg the top of the market. In the beef section, heifers were the best performers as Hereford and Angus sold from (EURO)2.00/ kg, with continentals making up to (EURO)2.70 while heavy Friesian bullocks battled hard not to slip below (EURO)1.80/kg with in-spec continentals on (EURO)2.35/kg.
2BALLINAKILL Trade was described as good but at a lower price with farmers and dealers still uncertain as to how the trade will proceed post Brexit. Forward bullocks and beef heifers sold from (EURO)1.90-2.40/kg, while forward stores sold from (EURO)2.00-2.55/kg with store heifers making (EURO)1.95-2.65/kg. Bull weanlings made from (EURO)2.00-2.70 with weanling heifers (EURO)2.10-3.10/kg. Cull cows were easier at (EURO)1.10-1.75/kg, which is a (EURO)100/hd of a drop in two weeks.
3MACROOM John O'Mahony gave as honest an assessment of the trade at the moment as I've heard. "There is uncertainty around and everything has come back some bit, but cattle are selling, it's just at a lower pitch," he said. That lower pitch saw three 570kg Charolais go under the hammer at (EURO)2.14/ kg, while two 530kg Limousins were swept up at (EURO)2.14/kg.
4CASTLEREA It was a similar story further north where demand remained strong but only up to a point for plainer stock. Among the prices for bullocks were the (EURO)2.80/ kg commanded by a 430kg Charolais, with (EURO)2.62/kg and (EURO)2.15/kg the prices respectively for two Limousins one at 510kg and the other 720kg. Among the heifers (EURO)2.72/kg got you a 425kg Limousin, while at (EURO)2.61/kg you had that 440kg Limousin or was that 420kg Charolais at (EURO)2.49/kg better value? 5RAPHOE Numbers were up on the previous week which did not unduly affect the trade for in-spec stock but the poorer animal was, as everywhere else, harder sold. Bullocks made from (EURO)2.20-2.80/kg with heifers selling from (EURO)2.30-2.70/kg. Bulls over 600kg made from (EURO)2.00-2.70/kg, while dry cows made from (EURO)600 for Friesians to a top (EURO)1,670 for the best continentals.
6MAAM CROSS It was a smaller sale with manager Eoin Burke commenting that the Brexit result was weighing on the trade. A majority of heifers were in the lighter 200-300kg category and, while easier than a few weeks ago, still commanded an average of (EURO)2.64/kg up to a max of (EURO)3.18/ kg. The lighter continental bullock averaged (EURO)2.63/kg in a range that went from (EURO)2.28-2.84/kg. Like Gerry Finnerty of Ennis a few weeks ago, Eoin wants to know "when is the Government going to get serious about shipping?" 7ROSCREA Trade was "quieter" on Friday according to Michael Harty as the effects of Brexit bit. His books showed four 568kg Friesians making (EURO)1.76/kg which is (EURO)1,000/hd. However, the same man had 570kg Friesians in a month ago and they made (EURO)1,140 a piece, said Michael. This precisely sums up the situation in relation to Friesians. However local interest is always a bonus which helps explain the furious competition that saw eight 326kg Herefords eventually make (EURO)2.45/kg; nice


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               357 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit forces Ireland to make new friends in Europe quickly

BYLINE: Vincent Boland in Dublin

SECTION: GLOBAL INSIGHT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 650 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Irish are trying to see the humour in Brexit. Officials in Dublin joke that, with the UK's imminent departure from the EU, Ireland has become the de facto leader of the union's north Atlantic wing.
That is cold comfort for Enda Kenny, prime minister, who is to meet Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and French president François Hollande in the next few days to explain his government's complicated position on the UK-EU exit negotiations. As he does so he knows that Ireland faces a political and diplomatic challenge the likes of which it has not encountered since it joined the then European Economic Community, along with the UK, in 1973.
Dublin's policymaking community did not want Brexit to happen. It would be too disruptive to bilateral trade, which runs to more than EUR1bn a week. It would threaten the fragility of the peace and political settlement in Northern Ireland, which is essentially built on shared EU membership and has been supported since then by generous EU subsidies.
Most of all, Brexit would necessitate a comprehensive reordering of Irish diplomatic and political priorities. "It's a whole new diplomatic world," says a senior official in Dublin. "Brexit is not a thing, like a problem in a hospital that can be fixed. It is part of the environment."
For the past 25 years, Ireland's diplomatic and political resources have been poured into normalising relations with the UK, its oldest, nearest and biggest protagonist. That effort has succeeded: relations between Dublin and London have never been better. But such success may have come at the expense of neglecting the Irish voice in other European capitals, not just in Berlin.
"We're at a strategic disadvantage in that we are stuck halfway between London and Germany and France," says Aidan Regan, a political scientist at University College Dublin. "We need to start putting our hands out to Madrid, Rome, and Lisbon, and policymakers are beginning to wake up to that." One big risk is that Ireland will find itself isolated in Brussels on EU issues such as tax harmonisation, which it opposes.
Ireland's diplomatic and political clout in parts of the EU is not what it should be. Paolo Gentiloni, Italy's foreign minister, is due in Dublin today for talks with Charlie Flanagan, his Irish counterpart. He will be the first Italian foreign minister to visit for nearly 20 years, according to the Irish foreign ministry. Foreign ministers from both countries have met in numerous EU platforms over those two decades. But the bilateral relationship could clearly do with some nurturing.
Mr Kenny has forged a good working relationship with Ms Merkel since he became Taoiseach in 2011. He has won German praise for steering Ireland out of its financial crisis. He has also identified Ireland's four priorities arising from the Brexit challenge - trade, Northern Ireland, maintaining the common travel area between the UK and the republic that provides for passport-free travel, and affirming Ireland's commitment to its EU membership.
Those priorities are understood in London and Brussels and perhaps also in Berlin and Paris. Whether they are appreciated in, say, Warsaw is another question. Since Poland joined the EU in 2004, tens of thousands of its citizens have moved to Ireland to work, marry and integrate relatively smoothly. Yet there is little evidence that this development has created a stronger Irish-Polish foreign policy relationship.
As commentator Noel Whelan wrote in the Irish Times: "We have, through no fault of our own, been put in a position where we will be forced to make unpalatable choices between our relationship with our next-door neighbour and our relationship with the rest of the street."
Says the senior Irish official: "Our position is that we want to stay friends with everyone." The Irish are about to find out, after Brexit, whether such a thing is possible.
vincent.boland@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); IRELAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (78%); FR France; DE Germany; IE Ireland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               358 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit is baddie at Bond film studio

BYLINE: Nic Fildes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 416 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It's not clear what James Bond, that quintessentially British figure, would make of the Brexit vote, but the referendum has slowed the potential sale of Pinewood Group, the studios that have been synonymous with his success.
Pinewood effectively put itself up for sale in February after appointing Rothschild to conduct a strategic review. It is understood that Chinese and American bidders have emerged as the front-runners but the Brexit vote has complicated the talks.
The weak pound means that international bidders for the Pinewood and Shepperton studios would get more bang for their buck, but at the same time the lowly value of sterling strengthens the company's outlook.
One of the biggest issues for Pinewood has been the strength of the pound as it tries to attract more international film finance. "In the context of our business, the decline in the sterling exchange rate is undoubtedly positive for our international customers," Ivan Dunleavy, its chief executive, said.
Pinewood said that revenue for the year to the end of March had grown by 11 per cent to £83 million, while pre-tax profits surged 56 per cent to £7.8 million, from £5 million in the previous period. The results were boosted by Spectre, the last Bond movie, although that was trumped by Star Wars: The Force Awakens, also filmed on site.
The company has overcome local opposition to expand its studios and win more work over recent years. It is set to open five new stages in June, with the first movie to be filmed to be Film Stars Don't Die In Liverpool, to be produced by Barbara Broccoli and starring Julie Walters and Jamie Bell.
Pinewood has faced a renewed attempt to unseat Mr Dunleavy and Lord Grade of Yarmouth, chairman of the studios, who have been in place since 2000. Crystal Amber, the hedge fund, has argued that the company should be more profitable than it is and that the duo have run the business "like a private members' club".
The company responded by appointing Rothschild to consider its options. Pinewood is controlled by a handful of investors, including John Whittaker, the property billionaire and chairman of Peel Group, who tried to buy the business for £96 million in 2011.
Mr Whittaker, Warren James, the jewellery company, and Crystal Amber control 80 per cent of the shares, which Mr Dunleavy has said has held back Pinewood's ambition to grow faster. Its shares have performed well, having risen 350 per cent since the start of 2009. After the results the shares rose 3p to close on 545½p.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               359 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 6:35 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote leaves schoolchildren, parents and teachers in limbo; Across Britain, families and school leaders are asking what happens to the thousands of EU children studying in the UK

BYLINE: Richard Adams and Caroline Bannock

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 854 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Soile Pietikäinen has lived in Britain for 17 years after coming from Finland. Her husband is Italian. Both her children were born in the UK and go to secondary school in Lewisham, south London.
"Brexit is heartbreaking for my family. I don't know what we will do," she said. "We have a home here. We have built our working lives here. And where would we move anyway?
"Should we all become British citizens? For the children certainly, yes, but personally, after today, I really do not feel like it. Not after being told to my face that I am so intensely unwanted."
The family's experience has been repeated across the country, as Britain gets to grip with the possibility of ending its open relationship with the EU and the right to free movement.
Families and school leaders have suddenly had to ask what happens to the hundreds of thousands - precise figures are not available - of EU children studying in British schools.
Sara, 14, who moved from Slovakia to Surrey when she was an infant, is tired of talking about the referendum at school. She has been shocked to hear how many of her classmates supported the leave campaign, and to find herself and other Europeans the subject of class debates.
"Many of my close friends reassure me and oppose Brexit, ashamed of what comes out of their friends' spiteful mouths," she said.
"Teachers try and avoid it as a whole. They just say, 'go back to work'. Or if they are challenged for an answer they say, 'It's complicated.'
"I just try and suppress the subject in school, which is a shame. It should be discussed. But it's awkward, frustrating and painful to hear what they think of your 'kind'."
"In the UK, they're saying they don't want us. It's worrying, devastating," said Sara's mother, Eva, who moved from Slovakia to work as a care assistant but is now a commercial manager.
"People are very careful about what they say in front of me - but I know they want to say 'immigrants get out of here'."
For Rob Campbell, headteacher of Impington Village College in Cambridgeshire, the referendum could close the school's sixth form. Impington offers the international baccalaureate in its sixth form rather than A-levels. As a result it attracts EU students who want a qualification widely accepted in Europe.
Campbell calculates his school could lose between £500,000 to a million pounds a year without EU students.
"Will we be able to replace them with British students? I don't know, possibly not, so that puts the sixth form at risk," he said. "The bitter irony is that the jobs potentially that will go are British jobs."
In the short term nothing has changed, as the UK remains a member of the EU. The Department for Education was quick to say there would be no immediate change. "We are clear that no child should live in fear of racism or bullying," the DfE said in a statement.
But for parents and headteachers, the biggest fear is uncertainty.
Martin, who lives near Newport in Wales, is married to a British national but never felt the need to change his German passport.
"Does it mean we have to leave Britain, Daddy? That was the question I had from my nine-year-old daughter at 7 o'clock in the morning last Friday. I never expected to have to reassure my daughter that I wasn't going to be thrown out of the country," he said.
Martin's seven-year-old son, though, is unfazed: "He's only interested in elastic bands, footballs and anything with a stick."
At Exeter Road community primary school in Exmouth, Devon, in an area that voted to leave the EU, headteacher Paul Gosling said political leaders needed to do more to reassure families.
"There's a feeling, which I'm not comfortable with, that foreigners aren't welcome. It's seeping through and children are picking up on it," he said.
"I want to be able to say to parents, to children, to staff from European countries, it's OK, you can stay here. But I can't, because I don't know myself.
Elke, a Belgian who has lived in the UK for 17 years and lives near Ashford, Kent, with four children, said her eldest son was in limbo, because although his father is British the couple weren't married at the time of his birth, meaning he took his mother's nationality. "When the results came in we immediately applied for British citizenship for him."
But Elke's eldest daughter has a different challenge: "She's autistic and lives in her own bubble. So we're actually more concerned about her because one of the issues she has is she doesn't express her feelings."
Graham Frost, the head of a primary school in Carlisle, immediately wrote to families to assure them of the school's response. But Frost said his major worry is what happens outside the school gates.
"People have become very vocal and allowed or encouraged by the media to be quite bigoted or use a xenophobic tone. That is encouraging adults to speak unguarded in front of young people."
Elke said her corner of Kent was "a sea of leave signs", so she wasn't surprised by the result. "I find myself speaking in my own language [Flemish] more in public with the children as an act of defiance. I used to get congratulations for speaking two languages. Now I get the opposite."


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SLOVAKIA (90%); FINLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               360 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 4:31 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: what does it mean for online retailers?; With currency fluctuations and the potential burden of tariffs and taxes, etailers worry that leaving the EU will come at an almighty cost

BYLINE: Suzanne Bearne

SECTION: GUARDIAN SMALL BUSINESS NETWORK

LENGTH: 991 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Whether it's selling to a customer in France or importing supplies from Italy, Europe plays an instrumental role for many of the UK's online retailers. The EU is Britain's largest trading partner, while western European markets account for more than 50% of the export market for online businesses, according to Volo, the community of multichannel sellers. 
Now online retailers - like many businesses, politicians and the rest of society - are grappling to understand what the decision to leave the EU might mean for their future. While nothing is clear-cut as yet, etailers say the effect is already being felt, not least because of the depreciation of the pound. 
"Right from the minute we arrived in Portugal this month and received (EURO)22 euros for £25 pounds at a currency exchange desk for our taxi from the airport, to the increased cost of producing our latest collection out there, the negative effect of Brexit in terms of currency fluctuations is very real," says designer Thomas Cridland, owner of sustainable fashion brand Tom Cridland, which sees 30% of its sales come from Europe.
On the other side of the currency fluctuation, wine etailer Baacco says the weakening of the pound has made some of its expensive and sought-after wines more attractive to international buyers. "We have seen an increase in interest from around the globe, especially from Asia," says Baacco co-founder Tai Alegbe. "We put this down to the fact that our wines are marginally more competitively priced because of the decline in sterling."
However, if Brexit does go ahead there's likely to be a change in rules and regulations for etailers, says Lesley Batchelor, director general of the Institute of Export. "If your stock is imported to an EU warehouse, ie the EU is the first port of entry, then the seller will have to register a non-resident VAT registration in that EU country." 
Batchelor adds that goods may attract local VAT and import duties depending on how any trade agreements are set up. At present, British firms do not pay import duties on goods exported to Europe. "Additional costs in administration and customs clearance charges may also impact orders," she says.
Professor Joshua Bamfield, director of the Centre for Retail Research, says online retailers are likely to experience a boost in sales overseas as a result of the weaker pound which should help them cope with additional costs. 
"UK-based online retailers will be able to sell a lot more goods abroad priced in sterling, as their prices are much cheaper now compared to overseas rivals," he says. "They will benefit although they need to be careful when hedging their currency bets. Alternatively they can increase their profitability by raising their international prices if that helps them more.  
"However they will now face EU controls over sales to EU countries, which will disadvantage them. The boost from devaluation should help to overcome the new duties to be imposed, but we may find that the larger ecommerce companies will create a base within the EU to sell into the EU."
However, small businesses say they are concerned that if the UK loses access to the EU's single market, they could be stifled by increases in trade costs.
Constanza Di Gennaro, chief operating officer at Wolf & Badger, an independent retailer that sells collections from small designers, says: "In an already competitive industry, an increase in shipping costs due to tariffs and VAT would be reflected in the price, making some products less attractive for customers. Another option would be for businesses to absorb these taxes, reducing already slim margins, especially for smaller independent designers without the economies of scale to absorb the costs."
Mike Cherry, national chairman at the Federation of Small Businesses, is lobbying for government action to ensure small businesses can maintain access to the single market. "We have already started work with the government on our small business agenda, attending business secretary Sajid Javid's business summit with other UK business groups," he says. 
At the summit, Cherry stressed that smaller firms needed simple access to the single market, the ability to hire the right people, continued EU funding for key schemes and clarity on the future regulatory framework. 
Many small etailers are hoping that the government is successful in negotiating access to the single market. Alegbe says: "We feel that they should work to preserve free trade with the EU and to keep the status quo with regard to there being no trade barriers or no trade surplus taxes and free movement of goods and labour with the EU in some form." 
Bamfield, however, argues that Brexit offers online retailers new freedoms, especially when it comes to their supply chains. "Leaving the EU means, in theory, that retailers can buy in the cheapest markets," he says. "Tariffs that the UK imposes on imports may be lower than the EU ones or even zero - in food imports, for example. Every retailer needs to analyse what this new freedom will mean for them and start creating new supply chains. Of course if we end up still in the single market, this will not be possible (probably)."
Another setback for etailers could be a slowdown in sales. "The main concern for online retailers is around the potential longer-term impact on shopper confidence," says Justin Opie, managing director of online retail trade body IMRG. "If shoppers experience a pinch on their spending capacity that lasts over a prolonged period, then that could present challenges to retailers."
What happens next is far from clear, but for many small retailers it's business as usual as they come to terms with the changing economic landscape.
                     Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network                                            here                                           for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); ITALY (79%); PORTUGAL (76%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               361 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit will proceed, says incoming PM; New Tory leader May says her 'proven leadership' will guide UK through turmoil

BYLINE: Denis Staunton

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Theresa May will become Britain's second female prime minister tomorrow, following the surprise withdrawal from the Conservative leadership contest of her only rival, Andrea Leadsom. 
Ms May, who has been home secretary since 2010, said she would offer "strong, proven leadership" to guide Britain through the political and economic uncertainty that has followed last month's vote to leave the European Union.
Speaking outside parliament, Ms May made clear that, although she opposed Brexit, there was no question of seeking to reverse or undermine the referendum outcome.
"Brexit means Brexit. And we are going to make a success of it," she said.
Ms May said she would work to unite the country while seeking the best possible deal for Britain on leaving the EU and forging a new global role outside it.
"We need a strong, new positive vision for the future of our country. A vision of a country that works, not for the privileged few, but that works for every one of us. Because we're going to give people more control over their lives. And that's how, together, we will build a better Britain," she said.
David Cameron will chair his final cabinet meeting today and will answer prime minister's questions in the House of Commons for the last time tomorrow. 
Tomorrow afternoon, he will tender his resignation to Queen Elizabeth at Buckingham Palace. Ms May will go to the palace shortly afterwards and move into 10 Downing Street tomorrow evening.
The Taoiseach is expected to seek an early meeting with Ms May, whose role at the home office has made her a more familiar figure to Irish officials and Ministers than some of her rivals.
'Very pragmatic, very clear' 
"She's very easy to work with, very pragmatic, very clear," said Minister for Justice Frances Fitzgerald yesterday. "We worked closely together on justice and home affairs issues, and she is familiar with Northern Ireland issues."  
Ms Leadsom withdrew from the leadership race on Monday after a weekend of hostile news coverage sparked by her suggestion in an interview that she was better qualified to be prime minister because, unlike Ms May, she has children. Ms Leadsom later apologised to Ms May and she did not refer to the controversy in her statement withdrawing from the contest.
The sudden end to the Conservative leadership contest overshadowed the launch of a challenge to Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. Angela Eagle said she was triggering the contest because she believed Mr Corbyn cannot provide the leadership the party needs.
"I wouldn't do this if I didn't think I had something to offer to bring our party and our country back together. I wouldn't do this if I didn't think I would be a good prime minister for Britain," she said.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               362 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Cameron borrowed £800,000 days before vote for Brexit

BYLINE: Matt Chorley;David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 634 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Even if David Cameron has concerns about what the future holds, he has just banked £800,000 to help cope with life outside No 10.
Just days before the European Union referendum, perhaps sensing which way the result was going, the prime minister and his wife, Samantha, mortgaged their four-bedroom family home in Notting Hill, west London. It was bought without a mortgage for £1.125 million in 2006 and has been let while the family lived in Downing Street. The tenants are believed to have been given notice to quit.
The house is now estimated to be worth £3.5 million, and the £800,000 lump sum will come in useful for the Camerons' planned business ventures, campaigns and charity work. It would also help to pay for a more luxurious holiday than the bodyboarding in Cornwall and budget airline trips to Portugal and Ibiza that they settled for while Mr Cameron was prime minister.
Despite saying publicly during the referendum campaign that he would stay on, even if Britain backed Brexit, privately Mr Cameron had made up his mind to quit, telling friends: "I always knew if I lost I couldn't be the person to take us out of the organisation I was trying to keep us in."
Friends say the Camerons are reluctant to sell the Notting Hill house because it has strong emotional ties to Ivan, their son who died aged six in 2009 having been born with cerebral palsy and severe epilepsy. The couple also own a £1.3 million cottage in the prime minister's Oxfordshire constituency but want to keep their family based in London to avoid disrupting their schooling.
Their oldest child, Nancy, 12, goes to Grey Coat Hospital school in Westminster, a short walk from Downing Street. Their ten-year-old son Elwen and daughter Florence, five, attend a west London primary school.
Mr Cameron spent yesterday morning at the Farnborough air show, watching the Red Arrows at the start of a carefully planned seven-week farewell tour, which had been intended to include a trip to Africa and a swansong at the meeting of the G20 group of leading economies in China. He will now have to make do with a final cabinet meeting and prime minister's questions.
Despite the suddenness of his departure, aides have been working on a programme for his first months out of office, including a luxury holiday, spending time with his family and finding one or two issues to focus on, possibly including tackling global tax avoidance, which he made the focus of his chairmanship of the G8 in 2013.
Mrs Cameron is said to be preparing to launch a clothing business with her close friend and aide Isabel Spearman.
Aged 49, Mr Cameron is the youngest prime minister to leave office since the Earl of Rosebery 121 years ago. He is determined not to "do a Blair", after Labour's three-time election winner quit the Commons on the day he stood down as prime minister. Mr Cameron wants to remain MP for Witney and plans to stand again in 2020. He would like to campaign on his "life chances" agenda, after setting it out in his conference speech in October. However, he is wary of being a backseat driver, telling Mrs May how to run her government.
Mr Cameron wants to find a paid international role, although while he remains an MP all earnings will have to be declared. He announced in 2010 that he was giving up his gold-plated prime ministerial pension, worth more than £66,000-a-year, under pressure over cuts to pay for public sector workers.
He used a speech in Farnborough to lay out his challenge to his successor, warning that the UK faces "a new reality" and the new leader must "make the most of the cards in front of us. The big, strategic decisions are for the next prime minister," Mr Cameron said, careful not to name a favoured candidate. He thought he had months to wait to find out who that would be: instead there were just minutes.
Graphic
David and Samantha Cameron could use money raised on their Notting HILL home, inset, for a more luxurious holiday than those enjoyed while he was prime minister


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               363 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Cameron borrowed £800,000 days before vote for Brexit

BYLINE: Matt Chorley; David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 635 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Even if David Cameron has concerns about what the future holds, he has just banked £800,000 to help cope with life outside No 10.
Just days before the European Union referendum, perhaps sensing which way the result was going, the prime minister and his wife, Samantha, mortgaged their four-bedroom family home in Notting Hill, west London. It was bought without a mortgage for £1.125 million in 2006 and has been rented out while the family lived in Downing Street. The tenants are believed to have been given notice to quit. The house is now estimated to be worth £3.5 million, and the £800,000 lump sum will come in useful for the Camerons' planned business ventures, campaigns and charity work. It would also help to pay for a more luxurious holiday than the bodyboarding in Cornwall and budget airline trips to Portugal and Ibiza that they settled for while Mr Cameron was prime minister.
Despite saying publicly during the referendum campaign that he would stay on, even if Britain backed Brexit, privately Mr Cameron had made up his mind to quit, telling friends: "I always knew if I lost I couldn't be the person to take us out of the organisation I was trying to keep us in."
Friends say the Camerons are reluctant to sell the Notting Hill house because it has strong emotional ties to Ivan, their son who died aged six in 2009 having been born with cerebral palsy and severe epilepsy. The couple also own a £1.3 million cottage in the prime minister's Oxfordshire constituency but want to keep their family based in London to avoid disrupting their schooling.
Their oldest child, Nancy, 12, goes to Grey Coat Hospital school in Westminster, a short walk from Downing Street. Their ten-year-old son Elwen and daughter Florence, 5, attend a west London primary school.
Mr Cameron spent yesterday morning at the Farnborough air show, watching the Red Arrows at the start of a carefully planned seven-week farewell tour, which had been intended to include a trip to Africa and a swansong at the meeting of the G20 group of leading economies in China. He will now have to make do with a final cabinet meeting and prime minister's questions.
Despite the suddenness of his departure, aides have been working on a programme for his first months out of office, including a luxury holiday, spending time with his family and finding one or two issues to focus on, possibly including tackling global tax avoidance, which he made the focus of his chairmanship of the G8 in 2013.
Mrs Cameron is said to be preparing to launch a clothing business with her close friend and aide Isabel Spearman.
Aged 49, Mr Cameron is the youngest prime minister to leave office since the Earl of Rosebery 121 years ago. He is determined not to "do a Blair", after Labour's three-time election winner quit the Commons on the day he stood down as prime minister. Mr Cameron wants to remain MP for Witney and plans to stand again in 2020. He would like to campaign on his "life chances" agenda, after setting it out in his conference speech in October. However, he is wary of being a backseat driver, telling Mrs May how to run her government.
Mr Cameron wants to find a paid international role, although while he remains an MP all earnings will have to be declared. He announced in 2010 that he was giving up his gold-plated prime ministerial pension, worth more than £66,000-a-year, under pressure over cuts to pay for public sector workers.
He used a speech in Farnborough to lay out his challenge to his successor, warning that the UK faces "a new reality" and the new leader must "make the most of the cards in front of us. The big, strategic decisions are for the next prime minister," Mr Cameron said, careful not to name a favoured candidate. He thought he had months to wait to find out who that would be: instead there were just minutes.
Graphic
David and Samantha Cameron could use money raised on their Notting HILL home, inset, for a more luxurious holiday than those enjoyed while he was prime ministerSTEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               364 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Citi bolsters equities team to exploit uncertainty over Brexit; Banks

BYLINE: Laura Noonan in London

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 331 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Citigroup is boosting its European strategic equities team to meet higher client demand for solutions to deal with the financial fallout of Britain's decision to quit the EU.
The US bank has hired Vincent Folliot from Bank of America Merrill Lynch as co-head of Europe, Middle East and Africa for strategic equities, and promoted Alessandro Amicucci to the same role. They replace Sophie Lecoq, who stepped down earlier this year.
Stephen Roti , Citi's global head of strategic equity solutions, said that the division was already seeing higher activity after the decision by Britain to leave the EU. "Strategic investors are thinking a lot about risk right now. Who wants to sell equity in a soft market? Better to hedge the equity and retain upside, or draw down financing to sell in the future at a more attractive price, " he said.
Equity market volatility - which has been high since the UK vote on June 23 - also improves client demand for share buybacks and hedging, Mr Roti said.
The Brexit vote has had a more negative impact on banks' investment banking fees, which were already down 23 per cent in the first half of the year.
Investment banking activity is expected to come under more pressure as the uncertainty about the future of the EU leads to individuals and corporates to hold off decisions about investing or raising money. Analysts in the US have slashed earnings forecasts ahead of this week's second-quarter results from Wall Street banks.
Citi - which was ranked in 10th to 12th position in global equity derivatives, according to data from Coalition - wants to grow share in equities as the market increases. "So many of our competitors are retrenching, they don't have the client coverage any more, they don't have the financial resources, and most importantly they don't have the same calibre of people," said Mr Roti.
Mr Folliot built BofA's strategic equity solutions business in France, Benelux, Latin America and Iberia. Mr Amicucci has been with Citi since 2009.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BENELUX (79%); BELGIUM (78%); EUROPE (58%); MIDDLE EAST (58%); GB United Kingdom; US United States of America; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               365 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Companies hit by uncertainty but many forecast rosy future; Brexit aftermath: South-west

BYLINE: Sarah Gordon, Business Editor

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 659 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Richard Hardstaff was on the verge of expanding to a new warehouse for his educational toys business until Britain voted to leave the EU.
Polydron , Mr Hardstaff's 13-person company, has been growing fast - it sells products such as brightly coloured geometric cubes to 65 countries - and its storage space in a business park outside Cirencester, Gloucestershire, is bursting at the seams.
But, like other small British companies, its longer-term prospects have been altered by the EU referendum.
The vote has dramatically increased uncertainty on issues ranging from regulatory standards to supply chains.
"We will roll with the punches and carry on - a cube is still a cube in Japan as well as Europe," Mr Hardstaff says. "But with this uncertainty we just can't go ahead with a new warehouse in the UK."
Other local companies have reported laying off staff, raising prices, or scaling back on investment plans, among a range of responses that also include seeking to take advantage of the weaker pound, in a survey compiled by Business West, a lobby group.
Most groups questioned by Business West believe that, in the long term, the future is bright, and that British companies are resilient enough to deal with any temporary downturn.
However, Mr Hardstaff says he will think about getting extra warehouse space on the continent, possibly in Poland, so he can supply his EU customers from within the bloc. He is also sceptical Brexit will mean less regulation.
"All our products are tested to EU safety standards and if we have to test to British standards as well, that will be another layer of cost," he says.
"Our designs are also protected on the EU-wide registry. What happens to that when we leave the EU?" Right now, such concerns are often worries about the future rather than present day problems. But they come little more than two weeks after the end of a campaign in which Brexit supporters argued that breaking free of Brussels would allow UK companies to escape burdensome EU regulation, forge new trading ties and take advantage of a growing domestic economy.
One exporter listed plans to "attract business from the US and Asia to take advantage of lower exchange rates," and foresaw hiring two or three new employees if it realises its goals. But, more generally, the uncertainty is taking its toll.
Mark Summers, who manufactures aircraft components near Bristol, is worried about future orders from within the EU.
Airbus, the pan-European aerospace and defence group, is the biggest customer of his company, Avon Valley Precision Engineering, and Mr Summers fears it might consider shifting its supply chain back within the bloc after a British exit. Since four out of his company's 50 employees are non-British EU nationals, Mr Summers is also concerned about their fate; the Leave campaign has called for immigration controls on Europeans and the status of those already in the country is unclear.
"Skilled European employees help underpin a lot of manufacturing in this country. If they choose to go back to their home countries, even if they have a right to stay, there will be pressure on the skill base in the UK," he says.
Any change to freedom of movement would not just affect manufacturing employers, but other industries. For Val Hennessy, who runs a language school in the centre of Bristol, Brexit could endanger the future of international education in the UK, which brings in 650,000 students a year and contributes £1.2bn a year to the economy.
The south-west of England voted overwhelmingly in favour of leaving the EU, despite benefiting from agricultural subsidies under the common agricultural policy, and other financial support. But groups such as Business West speak of a "big sense of shock" as the early implications of the result sink in.
"We need a strong political commitment from government that full access to the single market is the main negotiating objective," says Matt Griffith, director of policy at Business West.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRISTOL, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); BELGIUM (78%); ASIA (78%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               366 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: CPL posts strong trading, monitors Brexit effects

BYLINE: Charlie Taylor

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 118 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Irish-listed recruitment firm CPL Resources has said it sees both opportunities and challenges from Brexit, as it reported strong trading in the year-to-date. 
In a trading update issued yesterday, the company, which is due to announce full-year results in September, said revenues, gross profit and operating profit have all grown this year. The group said pretax profits for the year to the end of June to be in line with market expectations.
"Our balance sheet and cash flow remain strong," the company said. 
CPL, which derives over a quarter of its net fees from outside of Ireland, said it was monitoring the effects of the recent Brexit vote and assessing its possible implications for the group's business.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (59%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               367 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 7:52 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Criticism of Bank over Brexit should end unless impropriety is proved; Mark Carney may have overreacted in squabble with Jacob Rees-Mogg about referendum but he deserves sympathy

BYLINE: Nils Pratley

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 840 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: By the end of the Treasury select committee's session, Mark Carney looked as if he could happily punch his chief tormentor, the Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg. It was the umpteenth time Carney had been called upon to defend the Bank of England's honour over how it acted during the referendum campaign and the governor was irritated. "Those who cast it [the Bank's independence] into question should consider their motivations and their judgments," said Carney pointedly.
That was a swing at Rees-Mogg and those Tory grandees who had accused the Bank of peddling "phoney forecasts" and "scare stories" to help the remain campaign. Their number includes two former chancellors, Lords Lawson and Lamont, and two former Tory leaders, Lord Howard and Iain Duncan Smith.
Carney should calm down - but he deserves sympathy in this squabble. Judged on public comments, he and the Bank behaved properly. It would have been absurd for Threadneedle Street, charged with promoting monetary and financial stability, to somehow pretend that the referendum was not happening. The vote raised big questions for both remits. The Bank was obliged to assess the likely consequences.
 Related:  Mark Carney to hand notes of pre-Brexit vote talks with chancellor to MPs
The Bank judged Brexit to be the biggest domestic risk to financial stability. It said there could be a "material slowdown in growth" and even a technical recession, and it warned that interest rates could rise if falling sterling threatened to produce "a notable rise in inflation".
One could dispute elements of that analysis - a rise in interest rates was always unlikely - but, in its general thrust, the Bank's assessment was almost humdrum. It was judging risks, not making concrete forecasts. The central question is whether the Bank dishonestly skewed its analysis to suit George Osborne and his colleagues. There is zero evidence to suggest so.
As Carney argues, the Bank's work and conclusions were overseen by two full policy committees, including outside members. If there was a stitch-up, a lot of people would have had to participate or be fooled. It seems unlikely.
The only reason to overturn that view is if the governor engaged in nudge-winkery with Osborne. Thus it is good that Carney has agreed - albeit only after a sharp prod from the chair, Andrew Tyrie - to release to the committee notes of his private conversations with the chancellor. If there is a smoking gun, that is where it will be found.
If none is discovered, however, it is time for this tedious row to be laid to rest. On the available facts, the Bank just did its job.
                   Could Italy wipe out ordinary savers?                   
The cracks in the Italian banking system are wide. The International Monetary Fund judges non-performing loans to represent 18% of total loanbooks. The need for more capital is urgent.
But is the rescue process not well understood in the EU these days? You clear the decks by wiping out the bondholders, the folk who everybody swore would never be bailed out again. The cleansing process allows fresh capital, attracted by the removal of a layer of liabilities, to rush in.
Well, that's the theory. The problem in Italy is that following the rules is almost bound to create fresh turmoil. The banks have sold about 30% of their bonds to retail investors - ordinary savers. If the nest eggs of tens of thousands of Italians are evaporated on the orders of the EU, the consequences are unknown.
In one plausible scenario, the prime minister, Matteo Renzi, could lose October's referendum on constitutional reform and be forced to resign, paving the way for the Five Star Movement to make big gains on an anti-euro ticket. Thus there is a desperate attempt to bend the rules and find a way to bail out the banks, and their bondholders, anyway.
 Related:  IMF warns Italy of two-decade-long recession
For now, the EU is officially appalled. Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the head of the Eurogroup council of finance minsters, says the rules are strict and creditors must face losses "otherwise everything we have agreed in Europe will be questioned".
Dream on. There is no way Italy will be forced to wipe out ordinary investors. The EU will find a fudge to avoid a fresh political crisis. The rulebook will be ignored and state-aid rules by-passed. That is how the game always works. But Dijsselbloem is right on the moral of the tale: faith in EU promises about bank rescues will drop yet another notch.
                   May should name and shame on pay                   
Call Theresa May: pay for the bosses of big European banks rose 9.6% last year to $10.4m (£7.9m), according to an analysis by the consultants Equilar and the FT. The incoming prime minister, and now opponent-in-chief of excessive boardroom pay, arrives in Downing Street too late to name and shame those UK bankers who contributed to the haul. But, when the time comes, that will be a useful tactic. Theorising is nice, but criticism carries more force - and deterrent value - when it's personal and comes from the PM.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               368 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Devolved administrations pledge to fight Brexit cuts

BYLINE: Neil Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 446 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Finance ministers from the UK's three devolved administrations have pledged to fight cuts resulting from Brexit.
Derek Mackay, the Scottish finance secretary, held talks in Cardiff yesterday with Mark Drakeford and Máirtín Ó Muilleoir, his counterparts from Wales and Northern Ireland.
They are seeking an urgent meeting with George Osborne, the chancellor, in an attempt to avoid further public spending cuts and protect EU funding.
They said: "We are determined to act resolutely to protect the interests of all our people, especially against further austerity policies that might be considered as a consequence of the referendum result. This is particularly relevant in the context of the majority vote in both Scotland and the North of Ireland to remain within the EU."
They urged the UK government to take the opportunity provided by the referendum to think again about its economic and fiscal policy.
They said: "It is essential we assure potential investors, the business community and those in receipt of European funding that we will endeavour to put in place the necessary measures to safeguard our interests; and certainty on future budgets will underpin those assurances."
They sought clarification on alleged plans to reduce some spending by a further £3.5 billion in 2019-20.
Mr Mackay said: "We remain unclear on the likely impact of Brexit on UK government finances, and we are already seeing the UK government suggest changes to future spending plans as well as considerable concern over the economy and investment levels.
"The devolved administrations need urgent answers from the UK government on the impact that the Brexit vote could have on future budgets, and that is why it is crucial that we meet with Mr Osborne imminently."
Mr Ó Muilleoir said it was vital that the interests of the people across the devolved administrations were protected and that ministers worked together on areas of common interest.
He added: "Together we are seeking assurances from the Westminster government around budgets and that the levels of current significant EU investment will be sustained.
"Obviously the potential economic impact on the border region in the North of Ireland, which has greatly benefited from European funding, is of particular concern."
Mr Drakeford said the impact of Brexit on the UK's finances would feed into devolved budgets.
He said: "Today's meeting gave us an opportunity to come together to share our concerns and to explore how we can speak with one voice in our talks with Westminster.
"That is why we have written to the chancellor requesting a meeting to raise our collective concerns and to seek assurances for our people, communities and businesses."


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CARDIFF, WALES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); WALES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               369 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Euro zone economy to contract over Brexit; Moscovici expects to see contraction of between 0.2 and 0.5% by next year

BYLINE: Suzanne Lynch

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 539 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: i The euro zone economy is expected to contract by between 0.2 and 0.5 per cent by 
next year as a consequence of Brexit, the European Union's economics chief has said.
Pierre Moscovici revealed the figures as euro zone finance ministers met for their first euro group meeting since Britain voted to leave the European Union on June 23rd. 
The analysis by the European Commission's economics directorate-general also concluded that Britain's GDP would be affected by between 1 and 2.5 per cent by 2017. 
While the "fragility" of the euro area's economic recovery would be exacerbated by Brexit, he said, he urged the British government to begin exit negotiations as quickly as possible, arguing that the longer the uncertainty, the more costly it would be. 
"It is essential for both political and economic reasons that we continue calling for a clarification," he said, referring to the EU's repeated calls for the British government to invoke article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty as soon as possible, thus triggering the beginning of exit negotiations. 
 Resist calls 
Earlier euro group president Jeroen Dijsselbloem said he would resist calls for taxpayers money to be used to bail out Italian banks in defiance of new bail-in EU rules, amid continuing fears about the health of the Italian banking sector.  
He said banks, not taxpayers, should shoulder the burden of bank recapitalisation. 
"There have always been and always will be bankers who say we need more public money to recapitalise our banks and I will resist that very strongly because, again and again, its hitting on the taxpayer, again and again it is increasing sovereign debt on countries that are already heavily indebted," he said 
Instead the problems in the banks "need to be sorted out in the banks and by the banks," he said and "the easiness with which some of these bankers are saying, we need pubic money to sort out our problems - I think that's really problematic."
 The losses 
Mr Dijsellbloem repeated the sentiment following the eurogroup meeting.  
"Bail-in is a sound principle . . . that investors must carry the losses in the bad year. 
"We cannot ignore what has legally been implemented," he said, referring to the new Bank Resolution and Recovery Directive introduced this year.
The Dutch finance minister's tough stance underlines the scale of the challenge facing Rome as it seeks to convince the European Commission to allow the government to break new bail-in rules which state that creditors, including depositors, must take losses in any bailout. 
Italy's banks are nursing approximately EUR 360 billion of non-performing loans, as the heavily-indebted economy continues to struggle. 
A sell-off in Italian bank shares has intensified since the British referendum last month, with particular worries surrounding the health of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the world's oldest bank. 
Speaking on his way into the meeting, Minister for Finance Michael Noonan said the matter was an issue for the Italian authorities, the EU's competition division and the European Central Bank. 
"Directly putting money in would be considered to be state aid and it is not permissible at present," Mr Noonan said, adding that it was "a serious issue which we're watching very closely".


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ITALY (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               370 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'FG rebels are disingenuous and unpatriotic,' says minister in Brexit warning

BYLINE: Niall O'Connor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 667 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: FINE Gael TDs who publicly criticise Taoiseach Enda Kenny are "unpatriotic" and are undermining his ability to negotiate with other EU leaders, a Cabinet minister has said.
As Mr Kenny fended off the first murmurs of a heave since the General Election, Jobs Minister Mary Mitchell O'Connor rounded on backbenchers who have been briefing against him.
The new minister told the Irish Independent: "In terms of Brexit, it's important that Enda Kenny has a really strong hand when he is going to negotiate with EU ministers and also with Theresa May when she becomes UK prime minister.
"I think it's really disingenuous at this point in time to be out there [criticising him]. I think it's actually unpatriotic."
Her statement came as Mr Kenny, who is in Berlin today to discuss the Brexit fallout with Angela Merkel, appeared to shore up enough support to quell backbench disquiet for now.
Kerry TD Brendan Griffin yesterday demanded the Fine Gael leader resign before the Budget - but his call was not echoed by a single TD or senator.
Instead a string of senior party figures, including Michael Noonan, were rolled out to put up staunch defences of the Taoiseach.
And addressing the controversy during a speech in Mayo, Mr Kenny said he would be going nowhere.
"Let me say I have no intention of being diverted from that work that I have undertaken and for which I have received a mandate to fulfil.
"That is my focus and my focus is entirely on the future and for those who might be interested I will not be diverted from that task and that duty and that responsibility which is the mandate given to me by the people," he said.
His constituency colleague Michael Ring also said the Taoiseach should not be "hounded" form office.
Senior party sources last night told the Irish Independent they do not expect any motions of confidence in the Taoiseach to be tabled when the Fine Gael parliamentary party meets tomorrow afternoon.
However it is likely that a number of senior ministers will defend Mr Kenny's performance and encourage TDs to "remain calm".
It is not yet clear whether the Taoiseach will use the meeting to give any further insight into his succession plan.
His leadership was brought into sharp focus after he suffered a series of setbacks and saw his credibility openly questioned by members of his own party last week.
There was some concern within Fine Gael yesterday morning after Mr Griffin told RTÉ the party was "rudderless" and "drifting".
But despite several deputies privately expressing no confidence in Mr Kenny, nobody publicly backed Mr Griffin's call for him to quit.
In contrast, Finance Minister Michael Noonan batted away any suggestion that Mr Kenny's leadership is under threat.
"I think the country and the party are fortunate to have Enda Kenny as Taoiseach now," he said.
"He led the government which took the country out of the biggest crisis they've had in two generations, when we nearly slipped into bankruptcy. He saw the back of the troika and he's presiding over the country that's growing at the fastest rate of the 28 in Europe.
"Now we're on the cusp of another crisis and his skills in crisis management and his international contacts are very, very important," Mr Noonan said in Brussels.
Ms Mitchell O'Connor made a similar plea to backbenchers, stating: "We were elected to do the right thing for this country and I think we all need to remember that.
"It's not short-term gain. It's not politics and it's not political football now. When Ireland needs us we need to be able to step up to the plate."
Even Fergus O'Dowd, who criticised Mr Kenny last week, said a motion of no confidence is "not the right thing to do".
Meanwhile In Berlin today Mr Kenny will tell Ms Merkel that Ireland sees its future "at the heart of Europe" and that this view "is supported by the vast majority of the population".
He will also highlight to Ms Merkel Ireland's particular concerns in relation to Northern Ireland, North-South relations, the Common Travel Area and our inter-connected trade.
Graphic
Kerry TD Brendan GriffinMinister Mary Mitchell-O'Connor has criticised Fine Gael members' attacks on Enda Kenny


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               371 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Financial predictions lose their edge after Brexit and Trump; While prediction markets do get it spectacularly wrong, based on their overall record it would be a mistake for investors to ignore them

BYLINE: Proinsias O'Mahony

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1417 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It is often taken for granted in financial circles that if you want to ascertain the likelihood of an event, you're better off consulting market prices and betting markets than heeding the advice of the commentariat or relying on simple opinion polls. However, prediction markets were slow to accept that Donald Trump's rise was anything other than temporary, and they got it badly wrong on Brexit. So is the so-called wisdom of crowds overstated?
Surprises happen in financial markets, but traders can hardly plead that the Brexit result was an unforeseeable black swan event. For weeks, opinion polls indicated the result was too close to call, but betting markets always viewed a pro-Brexit vote as a relatively slim possibility. 
The odds on a Brexit vote did tighten in early June, when a raft of polls put the Leave camp in the lead, but even then gamblers remained confident that Britain would ultimately vote to remain in the EU. On the day of the election itself, most polls indicated Remain led by between one and two percentage points; although that was well within the margin of error, bookmakers estimated the odds of a Remain vote to be around 90 per cent. 
Global currency markets, too, saw the referendum as a one-way bet. The consensus among economists and investors was that sterling would fall to about $1.30-$1.35 in the event of a Leave vote, but that a Remain vote would see the currency trade around the $1.50 mark. 
For most of the week leading up to the vote, sterling was trading at $1.47 or $1.48; shortly after the polls closed on the day of the referendum, sterling had already hit $1.50. 
As David Rothschild of predictions website PredictWise noted, "financial markets went all in" that Brexit would fail.
Super-forecasters 
Predictions experts such as Rothschild were similarly wrongfooted. PredictWise estimated the odds of Brexit to be about 25 per cent, as did the Number Cruncher Politics Brexit Probability Index compiled by UK polling analyst Matt Singh, while prediction market Almanis estimated the odds of a Remain vote to be about 80 per cent. Good Judgment Inc, a panel of so-called "super-forecasters" known for their high accuracy levels, estimated the probability of a Leave vote to be about 24 per cent.  
Prediction markets were similarly slow to accept that Donal Trump was going to become the Republican nominee for the US presidency, even though he consistently led in opinion polls within weeks of declaring his candidacy in June 2015. 
With both Trump and Brexit, you would have made money by simply believing the polls rather than assuming market prices reflected some kind of special insight not available to pollsters.
That should not be the case. Those betting on the market, as well as predictions experts like David Rothschild, Matt Singh and Nate Silver of the FiveThirtyEight website, have access to polls as well as to other sources of relevant information. Polls can be misleading for all kinds of reasons; for example, Democrat and Republican presidential candidates tend to get a sizable but short-lived bounce in polls following their party conventions in the months leading up to the election. By adjusting polls for such biases, analysts should have an inherent advantage over pollsters. 
Additionally, anyone with access to crucial private information may well be tempted to profit from his or her knowledge, which is why inside information is often reflected in market prices long before it becomes public.
What went wrong? 
So what went wrong? In the case of Trump, Nate Silver admitted in May that he had fallen prey to "a lot of the same biases as the pundits I usually criticise". Although forecasters could have been forgiven for being initially sceptical of a candidate as unorthodox as Trump, Silver said he had anchored on his initial forecast, been too slow in updating his forecast as new data rolled in, selectively interpreted the evidence and engaged "in some lazy reasoning".  
Similar criticisms could be made of prediction markets' handling of the Brexit referendum. Nichols Colas, a market strategist at Convergex, said the result "gives real pause as to whether markets can forecast important political outcomes, particularly where one of the outcomes is not held to be politically correct". 
The financial community was largely unanimous in seeing a vote for Brexit as a foolish act of self-sabotage; asset owners, said Colas, "do not understand what those people who do not have wealth think about the world". 
Predictions expert Philip Tetlock, the brains behind the Good Judgment's aforementioned super-forecasting project, has made the same point, saying market professionals and forecasters "were socially far removed from modal Brexit voters".
Other factors may also have been at play. Forecasters must strike a balance between learning too much from history and learning too little, said Tetlock; too much weight may have been placed on past independence referendums such as in Scotland and in Quebec, where voters edged towards the status quo in the final days of the campaigns. 
Influenced result? 
Ironically, there is also the possibility that betting markets actually influenced the result. Post-referendum polling carried out by PredictWise on June 28th showed a jump in support for Remain. The cause of that swing was not because a large proportion of Leave voters changed their minds - it was because non-voters regretted not casting their vote. Many non-voters may well have assumed their vote was not needed, as the consensus was that Remain would prevail.  
The possibility that prediction markets could influence election results has been noted before. A 2013 study into the US presidential election noted the (now defunct) predictions market InTrade may have been manipulated by a trader making big bets on Republican nominee Mitt Romney. Although Romney was the underdog, this trader bet millions of dollars he would win - in all, about one-third of the money bet on Romney over the last weeks of the campaign came from the one individual, resulting in InTrade odds giving Romney a much better chance of victory than other bookmakers. 
Trader A, as the researchers dubbed him, may have been "attempting to manipulate beliefs about the odds of victory in an attempt to boost fundraising, campaign morale and turnout." It is "worth knowing", they concluded, "that a highly visible market that drove many a media narrative could be manipulated at a cost less than that of a prime time television commercial".
Prices beat polls 
It would be a mistake, however, to conclude that investors should ignore predictions markets. Most academic literature has found prediction market prices are in fact much more accurate than simple polls data in forecasting elections.  
For example, one 2001 study that examined 964 polls over five US presidential elections found market prices were closer to the end result in 74 per cent of cases. When forecasting more than 100 days in advance, market prices beat poll data on every occasion. Another paper coauthored by US economist Justin Wolfers came to the same conclusion, with market prices outperforming "both professional forecasters and polls in a variety of statistical tests".
Prediction market track records may have taken a hit recently, but they "still trounce chance", as Philip Tetlock tweeted in the aftermath of the Brexit result. In contrast, Tetlock's 2005 book, Expert Political Judgment, showed historical forecasts from most political "experts" were "roughly as accurate as a dart-throwing chimpanzee". 
Similarly, there is also a danger in "overcorrecting" after unexpected events, as Nate Silver put it. Silver's main models for predicting US presidential primaries and caucuses in 2016 have correctly predicted the winner around 90 per cent of the time; while there will always be occasional surprises, they have occurred "about as often as they're supposed to but not more often".
It is not hindsight to say betting markets underestimated the odds of Brexit: it is baffling that the odds of a Remain vote were as high as 90 per cent on the day of the election considering polls consistently showed that this was a close race. 
However, while the Brexit shock has highlighted the frailties both of financial markets and of statistical models, it is worth remembering that the alternative for investors - relying on "professional forecasters, polls, pundits, or a combination of the three", to borrow from the Justin Wolfers study - is an altogether less enticing prospect.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               372 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 12:02 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Fixed-rate dual-fuel energy tariffs pulled since Brexit vote; Comparison website uSwitch finds a dozen deals have been replaced with more expensive ones since EU referendum

BYLINE: Hilary Osborne

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 426 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Twelve energy providers have pulled fixed-rate tariffs and replaced them with more expensive deals since 23 June, in signs that the pound's fall in the wake of the Brexit vote could push up household bills.
Comparison website uSwitch found a dozen dual-fuel deals had been replaced since the referendum, with new offers costing up to £105 a year more for the average customer. It said wholesale energy costs had been rising for the past three months, and that the UK's position as a net importer of energy meant the falling pound was pushing up prices. 
 Related:  Siemens freezes new UK wind power investment following Brexit vote
British Gas, EDF and Scottish Power are among the firms to have repriced a fixed-rate gas and energy deal, although the biggest increase was by small provider Extra Energy, which replaced its Fresh Fixed Price October 2017 deal, typically costing £770 a year, with one fixed until August 2017 costing £875 for an average energy user. 
Tom Lyon, energy expert at uSwitch, said: "For nearly three years, wholesale gas and electricity prices have been falling, leading to cheaper and cheaper fixed-term deals for consumers. But with concerns about future UK energy supply, the impact of Brexit, and a weaker pound, we are starting to see some suppliers increase the price of their cheapest deals."
Before the referendum, the government had claimed that a leave vote would push up prices for households. In March, the energy secretary, Amber Rudd, talked of an "electric shock", with prices rising by £500m a year - or £20 for every household. However, leave campaigners suggested a Brexit vote would allow the government to scrap VAT on fuel, bringing down costs. 
The new deals launched since the vote vary hugely in price. Utilita's Premium Energy deal has fallen in price, by £31, but remains more expensive than some of those that have risen in cost, at £1,136 a year for a typical energy user. British Gas's HomeEnergy Fixed offer is just £25 a year more than the supplier's previous version, but costs £1,044.
The wholesale prices of gas and electricity fell during 2015 and winter saw providers cut their standard tariffs and launch low fixed-rate deals. There were still "some very competitive" deals on the market, said uSwitch, and the average price of the 10 cheapest deals on the market was £99, or 11%, lower than in July 2015. It said that alongside one-year fixed-rate tariffs suppliers were also launching longer-term deals. First Utility, for example, has launched a three-year deal with a typical cost of £999 a year.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               373 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 3:10 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hotel Chocolat says cocoa price surge will not affect product cost; Despite increase in sterling price of cocoa since Brexit vote, chocolatier reassures customers they will not have to pay more

BYLINE: Sean Farrell

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 406 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Hotel Chocolat has said the post-Brexit vote surge in the price of cocoa will not mean customers have to pay more for its upmarket chocolate products.
The chocolatier said it had seen no change in trading since the referendum result and insisted that its business would weather a likely economic slowdown.
In Hotel Chocolat's first trading update since floating on the stock market, it said revenue in the year to 26 June rose by 12% to £92.6m - slightly better than expected.
Hotel Chocolat shares floated in May at 148p each. They jumped to 210p soon after as investors sought to buy into the trend for consumers pay more for food products they perceive to be of higher quality. The shares fell heavily after Britain voted to leave the EU; however, at 178p, they are still above their offer price.
The fall in the value of the pound since the referendum result was announced has helped push up the sterling price of cocoa, which reached a near-40 year high last week. If sustained, this could increase the cost of chocolate, of which the average UK person consumes 7.4kg (16.3lb) a year.
Despite using more cocoa than most chocolate producers, Angus Thirlwell, the chief executive of Hotel Chocolat, said it would not feel the effect because the retailer buys cocoa a year ahead and is insured against rising prices.
"We buy a wide variety of ingredients including hazelnuts, almonds, cherries, alcohol and sugar, and when one is up, another is down and broadly it balances out. There are also so many other things we can do, so we don't give our loyal consumers a nasty surprise," he said.
Hotel Chocolat could, he added, expand its factory more quickly to gain economies of scale, or make further improvements to deliveries to increase efficiency, before raising prices. 
As retail industry figures showed that consumer spending slowed significantly in the run-up to the referendum, Thirlwell said he had seen no slowdown. Hotel Chocolat customers are relatively well off, its products are not a big purchase for them and they are loyal to the brand, which expanded during the financial crisis, he added.
"Since the end of June, we've had another couple of weeks and trading has been in line with our expectations. The fact we've been through a few more challenging trading environments historically and have managed to continue to grow in those environments means we can approach that not with confidence, but with resilience," Thirlwell said.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               374 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Kenny's critics are unpatriotic'; ? Minister accuses Fine Gael rebels of being 'disingenuous' ? Leadership row weakening Taoiseach in key Brexit talks

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 251 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Kevin Doyle and Niall O'Connor FINE Gael TDs who publicly criticise Taoiseach Enda Kenny are "unpatriotic" and undermining his ability to negotiate with other EU leaders, a Cabinet minister has said.
As Enda Kenny fended off the first murmurs of a heave since the General Election, Jobs Minister Mary Mitchell O'Connor rounded on colleagues who have been briefing against him.
The new minister told the Irish Independent: "In terms of Brexit, it's important that Enda Kenny has a really strong hand when he is going to negotiate with EU ministers and also with Theresa May when she becomes UK Prime Minister. I think it's really disingenuous at this point in time to be out there [criticising him]. I think it's actually unpatriotic."
John Downing Martin shows Enda how persistence in face of fickle public can pay p21 Similarly, Michael Noonan said: "We're on the cusp of another crisis and his skills in crisis management and his international contacts are very, very important."
They were speaking ahead of a meeting between Mr Kenny and German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin today.
Kerry TD Brendan Griffin went public to call for the Taoiseach to resign before the Budget - but his call was not echoed by a single TD.
Full reports, Pages 2-5 Theresa beats a path to Number 10 Theresa May speaks to reporters after being confirmed as the leader of the Conservative Party and Britain's next Prime Minister outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, London, yesterday.
FULL REPORT, PAGES 6-9 & COMMENT


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); WESTMINSTER, ENGLAND (79%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               375 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Kenny to voice concerns over Brexit at meeting with Merkel

BYLINE: Derek Scally, Ruadhán Mac Cormaic

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 413 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: RUADHÁN Mac CORMAIC 
 Taoiseach Enda Kenny will urge chancellor Angela Merkel today in Berlin to ensure that Ireland's concerns about the impact of the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union are heeded.
The Brexit referendum vote will loom large over the meeting, with the Taoiseach anxious to underline again Ireland's commitment to the EU while pressing for London to be given time to reorder its affairs before it files for divorce.
"We're striking that balance," one Irish official said of the current round of meetings with EU counterparts. "We're saying: we have a strongly pro-EU culture here. We're not them [the British], but we recognise pragmatically that you have to give them space to get their house in order."
Breathing space 
Dr Merkel agrees that breathing space is fair, but has made clear that time is of the essence.  
"This decision has fallen and now the next step is that Britain - when they have a new prime minister - files an application under article 50 of the European Treaty," she has said.
Now two of Europe's longest-serving leaders, and veterans of countless EU crisis summits, Mr Kenny and Dr Merkel have employed every ounce of political wile to survive domestically in the last months. 
But even they may soon part company. While Mr Kenny, after five years, faces pressure to quit soon, Dr Merkel enters the last year of her third term with a welcome bounce in opinion polls.
Ireland sees Germany, along with states such as Sweden and the Netherlands, as allies in pushing back against pressure from other member states for either renewed integration or a loosening of ties between EU states in response to the British referendum result. 
"We hope for a broad consensus around the view that this is not the time for a leap forward or a step back," said one Irish official. 
While Dublin, in its discussions on Brexit with other EU states, is making clear its concerns about potential implications for the Common Travel Area, the Border and the peace process, the official described the current position as "preparing the ground" for more detailed talks once the British clarify their intentions. 
"We need to know what their ask is," the official said, referring to the British side. "Only they know what they're going to do next."
As part of discussions, Italian foreign minister Paolo Gentiloni will meet Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan in Dublin today while French president François Hollande is due to visit Ireland next week. 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); ITALY (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               376 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 7:14 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Legitimacy of the Brexit referendum

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 701 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The government's response to the petition for a second referendum states that "The European Union Referendum Act received royal assent in December 2015, receiving overwhelming support from parliament. The act did not set a threshold for the result or for minimum turnout." In fact, nowhere in the act is there any definition of the status of the referendum or any stipulation as to the way in which its results are to be evaluated. This seems to me to suggest that the referendum is a nullity and represents yet another example of the catastrophic failure of governance that the Westminster system allows to happen all too often. So we lurch, ill-prepared, from one crisis to the next.
Reading the debates and discussions as the bill passed through its stages reveals that no MP at any time raised these vital issues. Even the most humble club or society has provision in its constitution for such procedures to be followed. Indeed, the government is hell-bent on imposing the most stringent threshold and turnout requirements on trade union ballots. Until we get a written constitution and a reform of the adversarial nature of parliament to allow more focused scrutiny of legislation, we shall be destined to see endless repeats of this sorry state of affairs. Paul GarlandSaffron Walden, Essex
· In " Britain is changed utterly. Unless this summer is just a bad dream " (9 July), Ian McEwan calls the EU referendum "a creature imagined into being by the Conservative party alone. It, not Ukip, offered the referendum; it fought it, it won as well as lost it." It's true that the referendum was a Tory initiative, but I am surprised that neither McEwan nor any of the commentary I have read since the vote mentions the overwhelming cross-party support for it in parliament.
The European Union Referendum Act of 2015 passed the Commons 544-53 on second reading. The House of Lords also approved. Only the Scottish Nationalists opposed the bill; other parties, even the Liberal Democrats and the Greens, agreed not just on holding the referendum but on structuring it as a single vote, a one-day plebiscite requiring only a simple majority nationwide to pass - no supermajority, no "multiple lock" recognising Britain's constituent parts, no later confirming vote and no requirement for a detailed prospectus of the leave position.
Any of those parties or their leaders could have said at the time that this was a careless and dangerous way to proceed. Why didn't they? And what responsibility does that give them for the resulting mess? Jeff SmithBrno, Czech Republic
· I am one of the numerous barristers who turned down the invitation to sign an open letter to the prime minister advising him (or her) not to activate the article 50 procedure to leave the EU ( 1,000 barristers say parliament must take final Brexit decision, , 11 July). Barristers are of course entitled to submit any letters they wish to the prime minister, but we need to remember that - outside our own professional area of the law - barristers, collectively and individually, possess no greater wisdom or insight into the affairs and government of our country than any other citizen. Unfortunately the letter comments on what are essentially political rather than legal matters, and as such has no greater significance than the views of the regulars at the Rovers Return.
The suggestion that there must be primary legislation to trigger article 50 is not supported by any legal argument and ignores the fact that the referendum and its question was set out in primary legislation. Since the electorate has given a clear answer to the question "Should the United Kingdom remain a member of the European Union or leave the European Union?" the government has been given statutory authority to leave the EU through the article 50 procedure.
The rule of law relies ultimately on acceptance by society. If the electorate believe that their democratic will is being thwarted by the sort of legal trickery proposed in the barristers' letter then the results could be very dangerous. Neil AddisonLiverpool 
                       · Join the debate - email                         guardian.letters@theguardian.com                                        


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               377 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Let's ensure Brexit is a participatory process

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 270 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, The emphasis on sovereignty during the referendum campaign implies the need for a general election before Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty is triggered, particularly in light of the fact that a new UK prime minister is now being determined by just 330 Conservative MPs. Voters from right and left voted to leave the EU, so the Tories cannot present the referendum outcome as a mandate for their domestic policy agenda. No manifesto at the 2015 general election included detail of what a post-Brexit future might look like, so it is essential that we now have this debate and a democratic choice.
We must seize this moment both to democratise and to achieve the best deal we can from Brexit. This means ensuring European politicians and others with knowledge and understanding of the EU are involved and will require a new parliamentary scrutiny committee, which includes input from MEPs, to monitor the progress of negotiations with the EU. The negotiations also offer opportunities to begin a genuinely participatory process which could take the form of a nationwide network of citizens' juries.
Finally, and crucially, we need to capitalise on the renewed sense of political engagement the referendum has fostered and introduce proportional representation for elections to make sure from this point forward all votes count.
I regret the outcome of the referendum, but celebrate the clamour for genuine representation it has unleashed. We owe it the British people to deliver true democracy and the best deal for the country that we can.
Molly Scott Cato MEP
Greens, South West of England and Gibraltar,
European Parliament


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GIBRALTAR (79%); ENGLAND (79%); PT Portugal; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               378 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's sudden elevation is good news for Tories; Lack of potentially bruising leadership contest will help in Brexit negotiations

BYLINE: Denis Staunton

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 786 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: When Theresa May woke up yesterday morning, she was preparing to make a policy speech at the start of what was shaping up to be a long, hard- fought leadership contest. By the afternoon, she was prime minister-in-waiting, preparing to move into 10 Downing Street tomorrow evening.
May's elevation followed the latest, unexpected plot twist in an extraordinary two weeks at Westminster that has left a heap of political corpses in its wake. 
David Cameron, who had a few months before boasted to EU leaders that he is "a winner", leaves office as a failure with his country in turmoil. Boris Johnson, only two weeks ago the front-runner to succeed him, is now a half-forgotten piece of political roadkill in the rear-view mirror of the fast- moving caravan of events.
Andrea Leadsom's withdrawal from the leadership contest came after a bruising weekend of hostile press coverage, which was entirely of her own making. 
Her interview with the Times on Saturday, suggesting that having children gave her an edge over May, was ill-advised. But it was her disastrous handling of the controversy which revealed how much Leadsom lacked the experience and the judgment necessary for the office she sought.
Leadsom at first claimed she was quoted out of context, a defence that was soon abandoned when the Times released a transcript and a recording of the interview. The controversy followed questions about claims she had made about her experience in business, which exaggerated her role in fund management.
The energy minister claimed yesterday that she was withdrawing from the race because she only had the support of 25 per cent of Conservative MPs. But that was also true last week, when she was gung-ho about her prospects of winning over the membership against May.
Avoid contest
 Leadsom's withdrawal is good news for the Conservative Party, which will avoid a contest that would have deepened some of the divisions within the party exposed during the EU referendum.  
During the course of an eight-week campaign, both candidates would have likely adopted rigid positions on Britain's withdrawal negotiations from the EU.
May will now succeed Cameron as prime minister on tomorrow, cutting short a lame-duck premiership that has contributed to the uncertainty surrounding policy in post-Brexit Britain. Its neighbours will soon know the make-up of the government that will lead the exit negotiations. And in May, Britain will have a prime minister with a firm grasp of policy detail, with a reputation for competence in Whitehall.
May has no coterie at Westminster, so she has few friends she needs to reward with cabinet posts. She is likely to include some prominent campaigners for Brexit, among them some of her vanquished rivals for the leadership. But the scale and swiftness of her victory means there is a limit to the magnanimity she will be required to show.
George Osborne, with whom May has always enjoyed a frosty relationship, was in any case expected to move from the treasury, but he may be disappointed in his ambition to become foreign secretary.
Unlike Leadsom, who wanted to invoke article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty immediately, May has said she would prefer to wait until next year to start formal exit negotiations. Although she backed the Remain side in the referendum, she has promised to implement the referendum outcome, insisting again yesterday that there would be no "back door" reversal of the decision to leave the EU.
Still, by bypassing an election contest, May has avoided being pushed into making commitments that would restrict her negotiating mandate with the EU. She must now work out how to reconcile Britain's interest in maintaining maximum access to the European single market with the political imperative of ending or restricting the free movement of people.
EEA arrangement
 Cameron has, in recent days, suggested that Britain's interest lies in maintaining the closest possible relationship with the EU after Brexit. That points to an arrangement similar to Norway's, which is part of the European Economic Area (EEA) and consequently of the single market.  
However, there is no appetite in EU capitals for offering Britain the equivalent of EEA membership, providing full access to the single market with no obligation to accept free movement of people.
There will be some bitterness among supporters of May's rivals about her accession to 10 Downing Street through a coronation rather than an election. But with the backing of 60 per cent of Conservative MPs in the final parliamentary ballot last week, she is well placed to stamp her authority on the party. 
Besides, May's opponents have only themselves to blame for placing their hopes in such an obviously flawed candidate as Leadsom.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: WESTMINSTER, ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               379 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May's victory will force the UK to get on with Brexit

BYLINE: Brian Hayes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 579 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ON both sides of the Irish Sea right now there seems to be an incredible amount of raw politics going on for this time of the year. While Enda Kenny has to deal with his own problems in Dublin, in London yet another act from the unfolding post-Brexit drama has played out in both a dramatic and bizarre fashion. It would seem that this script is fresh from a Jeffrey Archer novel.
The Tory leadership contest has come to a shuddering halt. How a relatively new and completely untested MP could effectively end up going head to head for the most senior position in British politics, seemingly unprepared for the battle ahead, is beyond comprehension.
The entire events surrounding David Cameron's departure and the leadership contest is really quite amazing, even by Tory standards of backstabbing and conspiracy. I'm sure that both Michael Gove, he of backstabbing fame himself, and his latest victim, the hapless former Mayor of London Boris Johnson, can only stare into the sky, wondering what's happened and could it all be true.
Two weeks ago, when the EU leaders of the 27 member states met in Brussels, they made it clear to the British that after electing a new prime minister they expected to see movement on Article 50. That's the article that triggers the formal opening of the EU/British negotiations on Brexit.
Theresa May's unexpected coronation yesterday has suddenly moved Brexit to the foreground of EU politics much earlier than expected and will put pressure on all sides to get on with the divorce settlement. The only question now is when will Article 50 be invoked? Ms May has said 2017. But the EU might not be happy for that long. And that's where the problem is - she can't move on the issue until she has some idea of what the final settlement might look like.
And that's where Mr Kenny comes into the picture. What Ireland needs now in the middle of all this uncertainty is the Taoiseach on the pitch dealing with the implications of this settlement.
The next year is a crucial one for our interests as a country to be highlighted and understood at every level in the EU. Mr Kenny is well positioned for that work.
Until yesterday, two things were continuously mentioned in the EU institutions here in Brussels.
One was that the British needed time to elect a new leader and set out a plan to leave the EU. Most EU leaders were keen to let the British mull over the implications of Brexit. Secondly, people here were still talking about a second vote, hoping beyond hope that if the British had experienced the cold winds of recession, they might think again and re-run the referendum.
Such European hopes are well and truly dashed now. Although Ms May was careful not to rule anything out when questioned yesterday, she was very clear to say at the same time that Brexit was Brexit.
There will be no early general election in the UK. Ms May as the new prime minister will now have to unite her party quickly, divided after three decades of internal fighting over Europe, behind her leadership. But principally she will have to deal with the coming economic clouds that will face Britain from jobs to investment - the tailwinds of which will undoubtedly affect us.
It won't be plain sailing as Britain's isolationist position in a globalised and complicated world plays out.
The task of Enda Kenny, the Irish Government, the opposition - in fact all of us here who work in the EU institutions - must be to protect Ireland's interests in the most uncertain of times.
Graphic
David Cameron and Theresa May pictured together in 2007


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (70%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); BELGIUM (87%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               380 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May to 'make Brexit a success' as UK's first female PM in 26 years;   Home secretary completes rout of Leave lobby   Leadsom ends shortlived campaign

BYLINE: George Parker, Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May will tomorrow become Britain's prime minister, promising to make a success of Brexit after she completed a dramatic rout of the Conservatives who led the campaign to take Britain out of the EU.
The removal vans will arrive in Downing Street tomorrow afternoon, marking the end of David Cameron's six years in Number 10 and the arrival of Britain's second female prime minister.
Mrs May, the 59-year-old home secretary, was a quiet member of the campaign to keep Britain in the EU, but now finds herself picking up the pieces after the last remaining pro-Brexit Tory leadership candidate threw in the towel.
Andrea Leadsom, the energy minister, announced at 12.15pm yesterday that she could not command the support of the party and abandoned her shortlived campaign, which was dogged by mis-steps and controversy.
Mrs Leadsom's friends said that she had been in tears over the weekend and felt "under attack" after suggesting in a newspaper interview she was better placed than Mrs May to become prime minister because she was a mother.
Her decision short-circuited a leadership contest set to conclude on September 9 and reassured markets that have been spooked by the leadership vacuum in Britain following the Brexit vote.
The FTSE 250 stock index, the most UK-centric of the main London equities benchmarks, was 3.3 per cent higher after the identity of the next prime minister became clear. The FTSE 100 gained 1.4 per cent to its highest close in almost a year, led by strong gains in property-related stocks that have been hit hard since the vote for Brexit. Taylor Wimpey was among the best gainers, up 7.1 per cent.
Pro-Brexit Tories had once been confident they would inherit the party's crown. But the ambitions of the campaign's leaders - Boris Johnson, the former London mayor; Michael Gove, the justice secretary; and Mrs Leadsom - have all been dashed in the tumultuous weeks since the Leave vote.
Amid the political and economic upheaval unleashed by the Brexit vote, Mrs May offered "strong leadership" and a promise to heal the country's divisions. Her pledge secured the backing of the vast majority of her parliamentary colleagues and ultimately gave her unstoppable momentum.
She will now seek to unite the party by bringing together politicians from both sides of the EU debate, but declared that: "Brexit means Brexit and we are going to make a success of it."
Mrs May has said she will not invoke the EU's Article 50 exit clause this year, but will come under pressure from Tory Eurosceptics to pull the trigger that would formalise Brexit.
Yesterday afternoon, Mr Cameron emerged from Downing Street to announce that he would chair his last cabinet today and answer prime minister's questions tomorrow for the last time. Then he will tender his resignation to the Queen. Mrs May will arrive at Number 10 later in the evening, the first female prime minister to walk across the threshold since Margaret Thatcher's tearful departure 26 years ago.
Mrs May says she will not hold an early election to seek a new mandate but will continue as prime minister until the next scheduled poll in 2020.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               381 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: McCreevy calls for 'common sense' on Brexit talks

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 405 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Former EU commissioner Charlie McCreevy said it would be "the height of folly" if parts of the 28-member European Union took a "vindictive" approach to talks on the UK's exit. 
"The UK is and will remain one of the world's largest economies, and thus it would make no sense for either the EU or the UK not to have a close relationship into the future," Mr McCreevy told reporters yesterday.
 The former Fianna Fáil minister was speaking from Naas, Co Kildare, where he was appointed chairman of financial services firm Murray Spelman. 
Mr McCreevy, who was the European commissioner for internal market and services from 2004-2010, said he hopes common sense will prevail on both sides of the talks, when they do happen. 
World wars
 "Britain came to the support of its European partners in the two world wars of the 20th century," he said. "Given that history, it would be more than ironic if countries on mainland Europe did not treat the UK in a very fair manner in the upcoming negotiations."  
His comments came after the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, took a hard line over the weekend, telling broadcaster ZDF that the UK would not be allowed to "cherry-pick" what it wants to keep from its EU membership while abandoning aspects it does not like. 
Monday saw Conservative home secretary Theresa May emerge as the victor in the race to become the UK's next prime minister, as rival candidate Andrea Leadsom withdrew. 
Irish and UK shares, as well as the European market, were buoyed by the news, advancing for a third straight session.
Messy campaign
 "It removes the prospect of a protracted and fairly messy campaign," said Eugene Kiernan, head of investment strategy at Appian Asset Management in Dublin.  
"The broader markets have been holding up in recent days amid rising expectations that the Bank of England will cut rates and the European Central Bank will buy more bonds following Brexit," he said.
As the political developments emerged, sterling erased a drop of as much as 0.8 per cent against the dollar, before rallying at 0.5 per cent. It was up 0.2 percent at $1.2983 as European markets closed, compared with a 31-year low of $1.2798 reached on July 6th.
"This reduction in the political vacuum has seen sterling rally close to 1 per cent against the single currency," said Justin Doyle, a senior foreign exchange dealer at Investec Ireland. Sterling rose to as high as EUR 1.1786 on Monday, its highest in four days. 


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); IRELAND (92%); GERMANY (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               382 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: My older companions won't fess up to their role in Brexit vote; The decision to leave the EU was won by a section of the population that was effectively disqualified by its declining competence

BYLINE: Stewart Dakers

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 603 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: "Look, they didn't bother to vote ... can't blame it on us ... they all went to Glastonbury ..."
Our EU postmortem has been going on for weeks, at the cafe, after bingo, in the common room. We've been in the firing line from the moment they published the age breakdown of votes, which showed the leave campaign won because we crumblies voted to quit. Since then, the media has been in our face and our grandchildren on our conscience.
Yet it's clear from these conversations that most of my elderly companions remain in denial. They refuse to fess up that it was down to us, and with every passing week "it" becomes less and less acceptable. The damage is everywhere, not just to the younger generation but across the board, across the globe. When they write the history of this time, there will be no getting away from the fact that this is my generation's legacy.
"My carer said she was really scared ... mine had been told to go back to Romania ..."
 Related:  Nostalgic elderly Brexiters have stolen my future | Sara Abbasi
That's the other ghost at the feast. Increasingly, it transpires that the issue which swayed it was immigration, and - intentionally or not - we had a hand in that. After all, we do grumble about the health and care services; it goes with the grey territory, so we provide some of the anecdotes that get blown up into full-scale xenophobia by the Daily Malaise.
"But they lied to us ... all a bit of a game ... especially the media ..."
It was genuinely difficult for my generation to separate the ideological wheat from the rhetorical chaff. We are gullible. And vulnerable. In a world being transformed electronically, its old values vanishing, the new agenda incomprehensible, we are adrift on a sea of doubt. And fear.
As each new day brings some fresh ache, we become suckers for any scam that promises a restoration of "the old days". It may not make any personal sense, but something deep down in our DNA makes us retreat into the sovereignty of the tribe, even though its leaders conduct affairs like a pantomime.
So rather than beat ourselves up for what was understandable misjudgment, let's concentrate on making amends. We can start by moderating the demands we make, especially for the various benefits like TV licences, bus passes and winter fuel allowances. Certainly, there are some who are in genuine need, but the vast majority of elderly people can easily do without them. Our local Lions club, for instance, acted as honest brokers for pensioners willing to forgo their fuel allowances to pass them on to families in real deprivation.
Perhaps though it's a matter of attitude.
"I'm not sure we should even have been allowed to vote" was one dissenting voice from the chorus of denial at our post-bingo conversations.
You are unlikely to hear a politician express such reservations, but the reality is that the decision to leave the EU was won by a section of the population that was effectively disqualified by its declining competence. Our heads find it difficult to navigate our way through the daily round of personal housekeeping, let alone global economics. Our hearts are too easily seduced by honeyed lies. But, above all, we won't be around to taste their bitter truth.
Renunciation should be the order of our day - it is time for us elders to incorporate the sell-by-date ethos into our political engagement, to recognise that the convictions of the day before yesterday are increasingly irrelevant to today's decisions that construct tomorrow's world. As we will not be around tomorrow, perhaps we should confine our role to consultant rather than executive in its formation.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ROMANIA (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               383 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Siemens 'here to stay' despite earlier warnings over Brexit; Industrials

BYLINE: Pilita Clark, Environment Correspondent

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 398 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Siemens, Europe's largest industrial conglomerate, has backed away from its earlier warnings that a Brexit could make the UK a worse place to do business in and affect the group's future British investment plans.
"We're here to stay," Joe Kaeser , Siemens chief executive, said in London yesterday. "The UK matters with or without being a member of the EU."
The German group was eager to see some sort of framework plan showing how the UK would approach its departure from the EU, in order to reduce investor uncertainty, he added.
Siemens obviously hoped the outcome of Brexit negotiations with the EU would amount to something as close as possible to tariff-free trade with European countries, but the UK remained a re-industrialisation "showcase", said Mr Kaeser.
Regardless of Britain's vote last month to leave the EU, Siemens would build a "huge manufacturing place" for local transport systems "in a heartbeat", if there were enough domestic orders, the chief executive added.
Ahead of the June 23 referendum, the German company was among the most outspoken multinational groups to express fears about a Brexit.
It told its 14,000 UK employees the higher costs and uncertainties of Britain leaving the EU "could make the UK a less attractive place to do business and may become a factor when Siemens is considering future investment here".
After the vote to leave, Siemens warned long-term plans to export wind turbine blades from its £160m manufacturing plant in Hull would have to be put on hold.
A final investment decision on this move is due by the end of 2017.
But Mr Kaeser brought his top managers to the UK for a staff meeting this week to help send the group's staff and customers the message that "we're here for the long term".
"We never said the UK will be in bad shape if it goes out of the EU," he told reporters in London. "We just said Europe would miss a massive opportunity if the UK went out."
Siemens has 13 manufacturing sites in the UK. The group's wind turbines account for half the generating capacity of Britain's wind farms, and its trains run across the country's rail lines.
The company is due to deliver 1,140 commuter rail carriages for London alone in coming years, in one of the biggest orders ever won by its global rolling stock business.
Its carriages will be used on the Thameslink north-south commuter route running through London between Bedford and Brighton.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               384 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: SThree; Brexit blow

BYLINE: FastFT

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 83 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Uncertainty in the run-up to the Brexit vote and slowdowns in the energy and finance sectors hit profits at small-cap staffing company SThree, which saw a 7 per cent drop in pre-tax profit in the first half of the year.
Revenues increased 10 per cent to £443.5m, but pre-tax profit fell 7 per cent to £12.8m.
While profit from temporary contracts grew, gross profit from permanent hires fell sharply in the second quarter, falling 12 per cent compared with a 9 per cent increase in the first.  FastFT


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               385 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Tectonic plates are shifting in the North as Brexit takes us into uncertain time

BYLINE: Tim Pat

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 910 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: IN THE wake of the Brexit disaster, as the Orangemen gather for the Twelfth, it behoves the leaders of the Green tradition to pay more attention to the real position of fundamental unionism on this island than was shown in the recent clumsy handling of the All-Ireland Forum idea which the DUP so contemptuously dismissed.
Before highlighting a situation which has an important bearing on the Unionists' position, let me recount two episodes which illustrate unionist thinking. One was related to me by the legendary Harry Diamond, the Republican Labour representative for Belfast's Dock Ward, to which the late Gerry Fitt succeeded.
One morning, back in the days of Lord Brookeborough's premiership, Diamond called in to the office of a senior Stormont civil servant seeking a favour on behalf of a constituent. He was one of the few friendly faces Diamond normally encountered at Stormont. The civil servant chuckled when Diamond entered the office saying, "Oh Harry - you'll be interested in this!" Someone on the Unionist benches had asked Brookeborough a question about the numbers of Protestants who had won decorations during World War II, expecting that the answers would highlight the loyalty of the Protestants and the corresponding disloyalty of the Catholics.
But the research showed that the Catholics had out-performed their counterparts.
The civil servant was dealing with the unwelcome outcome by the simple expedient of swapping around the statistics to favour the Protestants. Diamond could make no protest, if he did, not alone would his constituent not have their problem solved, neither would any of his other constituents henceforth.
Some 70,000 citizens of Ireland served in the British armed forces during the war, together with another 50,000 from Northern Ireland.
Incidentally, southerners won a total of 780 decorations, including seven Victoria Crosses. An eighth was won by James Magennis, a Belfast Catholic.
Another anecdote stems from Ian Paisley's days marching under banners bearing the slogan: 'CRA (Civil Rights Association) equals IRA'. Standing before a crowd of Belfast loyalists, he accused his hearers of being cowards and produced a list containing the names and addresses of Catholics who, shamefully, were being allowed to live in their midst.
The Catholics are still living in the North.
This is part of the background which explains why Arlene Foster and her colleagues in the DUP advised her followers to ignore reality and vote to leave the EU during the Brexit www.referendum.No matter that many ignored the advice. The North's is a begging bowl economy heavily reliant on British subsidies and on those from Brussels for agriculture.
Readers can make a fairly accurate guess for themselves as to what the attitude of farmers in the Republic would be if the main party in the Dáil deliberately adopted a policy which would end with cutting off the grants from Brussels in order to put obstacles in the path of North/South relationships.
And here we come to the importance of the Harry Diamond episode - the numbers game, as played at Stormont; when figures don't suit.
For several decades, the Census returns have been used to show a seemingly impervious unionist majority despite the apparent contradiction of an increased Catholic birth rate.
Light was shone on this practice when two Dublin demographers, Brendan Walsh and Cormac O'Gráda, analysed a recent Census return.
The official finding was that there were 38pc Catholics and 12pc who declared no religion appearing under "not stated".
However, when the two statisticians applied the test of increased fertility and knowledge of the Irish language to the "not stated", they decided that the Catholic 38pc could be over 40pc.
This, of course, was only an estimate but when the next official Census appeared (2011), the figure for Catholics was given as 40.8pc.
Curiously, however, the nonstated had gone up to 17pc and, we were told, these were largely Protestant males.
It is now some years since a former Taoiseach informed me that according to his information, the true Catholic population could well be around 46-48pc.
But, of course, neither he nor others involved wanted to risk frightening the horses by amplifying such estimates.
In the 2011 Census, the combined totals of the Presbyterian, Church of Ireland and Methodist churches only stands at 35.8pc, with other groupings making up the balance.
So all in all, the Catholics are probably only something like 100,000 to 150,000 persons away from becoming the majority in the Six Counties.
All this is of significant contemporary relevance because in April we had the inter-censual period exercise. This is the Census which takes place five years after the Census which is always held a year after the decade, 2001, 2011, and so on.
These returns are due to be published this year and Dublin should scrutinise them a lot more carefully than the ground was prepared for the abortive All Ireland Forum.
The tectonic plates of the North/ South relationship are shifting and in this period of unparalleled, Brexit-induced uncertainty.
Dublin (and London) should make it clear that the Census figures should be used to concentrate minds on the necessity of unionists and nationalists living peacefully in mutual cooperation.
'It is now some years  ;  ;  since a former  ;  ;  Taoiseach informed  ;  ;  me that his  ;  ;  information was  ;  ;  that the true Catholic  ;  ;  population could well  ;  ;  be around 46-48pc'  ;


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); BELGIUM (72%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               386 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 4:20 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May urged to start Brexit talks with EU after summer; European parliament president adopts softer stance with incoming PM and calls for divorce talks to begin 'without rancour'

BYLINE: Jennifer Rankin in Brussels

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 754 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The president of the European parliament has called on Theresa May to start Britain's EU divorce talks after the summer, as pressure mounts on the incoming prime minister to spell out her Brexit plans.
Martin Schulz, the German Socialist MEP, put May on notice that her Brexit government must give "the utmost consideration" to MEPs, who have the power to veto the UK's EU divorce treaty and any future trade deal.
 Related:  The EU must not treat the UK as a deserter - we can negotiate without rancour | Martin Schulz
But, writing for the Guardian, Schulz also struck a more conciliatory note, calling for talks to begin "without rancour" and for Britain to be thought of as a beloved relative leaving home rather than a treacherous renegade. 
"Now that the country has full clarity on its new prime minister, after the summer I expect the British government to notify its intention to withdraw the UK from the EU," Shulz said. "Talks must then start without rancour."
Adopting a less confrontational tone from the EU institutions, which have taken the toughest line on Brexit since last month's vote, Schulz says: "The UK should not be treated as a deserter but as a family member who is still loved but has decided to go in another direction."
Weeks before the referendum, the president of the European commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, declared that "deserters" would not be welcomed back with open arms. The EU machine has also been strongly critical of the UK government's foot-dragging over starting the formal EU exit process by triggering article 50.
Theresa May, who will take office on Wednesday, has said she will not trigger article 50 before the end of the year, in order to give the British government time to work out its negotiating strategy. On Tuesday Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary said it could take as long as six years for the UK to extricate itself from the EU. 
                     After consulting lawyers, EU officials have acknowledged they have no power to compel the UK to trigger article 50. But the European parliament will help determine the final outcome of the divorce.
In his Guardian article, Schulz underlined this point by warning that MEPs could veto the final Brexit agreement, meaning the UK could be forced out of the EU with only its World Trade Organisation membership to fall back on. A weighted majority of EU governments will also need to approve the Brexit deal.
Falling out of the EU without a trade deal would mean a tariff wall would go up between the UK and rest of Europe. Although average tariffs are low, some could prove punishing, such as 10% on cars and 35% on dairy products. 
EU leaders, past and present, have lined up to stress the UK cannot have access to the single market without accepting the free movement of people, a point repeated by Angela Merkel. 
The task of the new prime minister will be "to get clarity on the question of what kind of relationship Britain wants to build with the European Union," the German chancellor said on Tuesday.
In recent days the German leader has warned that Britain will not be able to cherry-pick the bits of the EU that it wanted. The European parliament will be a firm defender of this line: "It is clear that there can be no better deal with the EU than EU membership," Schulz writes. 
But he adds that the EU must learn from the result of the referendum, although warns against over-interpreting it, because of the "mass brainwashing" of the tabloids and and the leave campaign's "force-fed intolerance of the foreigner". 
 Related:  Post-Brexit - it's time to bring in the technocrats | David Walker
Schulz acknowledges that many people voted to leave because they felt left behind by globalisation and calls for a reset in which the EU recommits to "what people need". Implying that the EU as a guarantor of peace is no longer enough, he writes: "Today it is about safeguarding wellbeing, social justice, and protecting our values in a globalised world." 
Schulz, who has led the European parliament since 2012, is campaigning for an extension of his term later this year, when several big EU jobs come up for review. In a cosy joint interview alongside Schulz, Juncker told Der Spiegel he was backing the German Socialist to stay in office for the sake of stability, despite they fact they are from different political families - Juncker is a member of the centre-right EPP group, while Schulz is on the centre-left.
Juncker is expected to write to the new British prime minister on Wednesday to express his congratulations. 


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               387 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 1:17 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: This post-Brexit chaos could consign Labour and the Tories to history; The existential crisis consuming both parties won't get better until Britain works out its relationship with the EU. Both should bite the bullet and split

BYLINE: Lucy Webster

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 616 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Labour party is divided. The Tories - and by extension the country - are under new leadership. In the three weeks since the referendum, British politics has seen more crises than many of us can remember.
And it's not going to get any better, not for a long time yet. The parties are not just tearing themselves apart over policies and personalities; they are engaged in a furious battle to decide what they stand for, heart and soul. Is the Conservative party a bastion of Cameronite liberalism or a reactionary collection of near-Ukippers? Does Labour want to tackle the 21st century's great questions of liberation, climate change and inequality, or to lament the decline of industrialism and the loss of a loyal working class ?
These are big questions, but they cannot be answered until the biggest one of all is decided. What do we want Britain's role in the world to be once we leave the EU? Inward-looking or internationalist? Open or protectionist? That decision will shape Britain's role in Nato, the Middle East and the global economy.
 Related:  Theresa May: our writers' prognostications for the new prime minister | The Panel
But decisions about the European Union should raise broader questions about what kind of a country we want Britain to be. Do we want an economy based on rampant capitalism or gradations of social democracy? Has the time come for proportional representation? And perhaps most importantly of all, will the kingdom remain united ?
It is only through providing these answers that the parties can decide what they will look like. The suggestions put forward will shape what is possible. We may find that Labour and the Tories discover their places in this new world, or perhaps those labels will go the way of the Whigs and Liberals - descriptions for a different time. New parties may be better placed to represent the new divisions which have opened up in society.
Both of our major parties should get it over with and split. Perhaps each will form two splinter groups: one moderate and one extreme. This would leave us in the new position of having four semi-major parties to choose from, and could perhaps usher in a new era of coalition government. People may even - at a stretch - feel better about democracy when they can cast votes for parties which more accurately reflect their views.
 Related:  For the Tories, closed ranks: for Labour, open warfare | Polly Toynbee
Another possibility looms, although it has perhaps become less likely with Theresa May's victory over Andrea Leadsom. That is for the moderate wings of each existing party to band together, sweeping up the remnants of the Liberal Democrats, and form, if not a party, a modernist coalition - a broader SDP, if you will. As we leave the EU and become vulnerable to extremist views, this seems the preferable option if the new group can provide a buffer against such nastiness. Leaving the remains of the Labour and Tory parties to make the case for isolationism and radical economic views, this coalition could be the voice of progressivism and moderation. In the current climate, this is exactly what the country needs - although it is far from guaranteed to get it.
Whatever happens, Britain's political landscape will undergo seismic change. So if you're already fed up of the chaos and the bickering, it may be time to find a bunker. It will take time for the country to find its way, and even longer for the parties to coalesce around platforms which fit this new reality.
Even once May has become prime minister, she will have Brexit to negotiate. The deal which arises out of that will shape British politics and determine which parties are contesting our elections in the decades to come.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               388 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 12:34 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK scientists dropped from EU projects because of post-Brexit funding fears; Doubts over the UK's ability to win future project grants mean some EU partners are avoiding working with British researchers

BYLINE: Ian Sample Science editor

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1039 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's vote to leave the EU has unleashed a wave of discrimination against UK researchers with even elite universities in the country coming under pressure to abandon collaborations with European partners.
In a confidential survey of the UK's Russell Group universities, the Guardian found cases of British academics being asked to leave EU-funded projects or to step down from leadership roles because they are considered a financial liability. 
In one case, an EU project officer recommended that a lead investigator drop all UK partners from a consortium because Britain's share of funding could not be guaranteed. The note implied that if UK organisations remained on the project, which is due to start in January 2017, the contract signing would be delayed until Britain had agreed a fresh deal with Europe. 
The backlash against UK researchers began immediately after the June referendum when the failure to plan for a post-Brexit Britain cast serious doubts over the chances of British organisations winning future EU funding. British researchers receive about £1bn a year from EU finding programmes such as Horizon 2020, but access to the money must be completely renegotiated under Brexit. 
 Related:  Scientists fighting Brexit risk looking like an out of touch elite too
The 24 universities in the Russell Group are regarded as Britain's elite institutions. With Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, UCL and Imperial College among their number, they are renowned for world-class research and academic excellence. 
One leading university said anecdotal evidence that UK applicants were being dropped from EU bids came almost straight after the vote. But since then they had witnessed "a substantial increase in definitive evidence that EU projects are reluctant to be in collaboration with UK partners, and that potentially all new funding opportunities from Horizon 2020 are closing". 
Incidents reported by the universities suggest that researchers across the natural sciences, the engineering disciplines and social sciences are all affected. At least two social science collaborations with Dutch universities have been told UK partners are unwelcome, one Russell Group university said in the survey. 
Speaking at Oxford's Wolfson College last Friday, the university's chancellor, Lord Patten, said Oxford received perhaps more research income than any European university, with about 40% coming from government. "Our research income will of course fall significantly after we have left the EU unless a Brexit government guarantees to cover the shortfall," he said. 
 Related:  Post-referendum uncertainty is harming research - universities need answers now
The uncertainty over future funding for projects stands to harm research in other ways, the survey suggests. A number of institutions that responded said some researchers were reluctant to carry on with bids for EU funds because of the financial unknowns, while others did not want to be the weak link in a consortium. One university said it had serious concerns about its ability to recruit research fellows for current projects. 
Some Russell Group universities declined to comment for the survey, and not all of those which did knew of any discrimination against their researchers. Though one university said concerns over the impact of the referendum had become a part of almost every conversation about research, their academics were continuing with funding applications as usual. 
A week after the referendum, science minister Jo Johnson told academics and industry figures he had raised concerns over potential discrimination against UK researchers with the EU science commissioner, Carlos Moedas. Johnson has asked a team at the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to gather evidence for discrimination and urged organisations to report any incidents. Until the UK left the EU, he said the situation was "business as usual". 
Others see it differently. Joe Gorman, a senior scientist at Sintef, Norway's leading research institute, said he believed UK industry and universities would see "a fairly drastic and immediate reduction in the number of invitations to join consortiums". 
Only 12% of bids for Horizon 2020 funds are successful, a rate that falls by more than half in highly competitive areas. Given the low probability of winning funds at the best of times, Gorman said it was natural risk aversion to be cautious of UK partners. In many cases, British organisations will not have a clue they have lost out. "If you don't get invited to the party, you don't even know there is a party," he said. 
"I strongly suspect that UK politicians simply don't understand this, and think it is 'business as usual', at least until negotiations have been completed. They are wrong, the problems start right now," he added. As a former EC official, Gorman oversaw research projects and now advises universities and companies on how to succeed in EU-funded research programmes. 
According to Gorman, the UK government must make a clear and immediate statement on how Britain will take part in future EU projects from outside the union. "All the talk is about when negotiations will start. We don't want that. People want to know now what is going to happen. This could all be solved by one pronouncement from one minister," he said.
Another obstacle British researchers face is the potential bias, whether conscious or not, of the independent evaluators who score applications for EU funding. Xavier Aubry at Zaz Ventures, a consultancy that works with consortiums to win Horizon 2020 funding, said Switzerland was discriminated against at the evaluation stage after its 2014 referendum to restrict immigration. 
Aubry's firm operates a "no win, no fee" policy, which has left him second-guessing how the evaluators will respond to the Brexit vote. "Right now the problem is that we don't know how the evaluators will react, Even if they are briefed that they should not discriminate, they could have unconscious biases," he said. As a result, he said, British organisations will have to bring more to the table to justify the risk of them being included in a consortium. "We are becoming more strict," he said. "But we are not telling people to stop working with the UK." 


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               389 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 7:41 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK's new immigration system may not be points-based, says minister; James Brokenshire says post-Brexit system won't definitely be styled on Australian model, as promised by Leave campaigners

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 626 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's new immigration system will not necessarily be modelled on the Australian-style points-based system promised by leading Leave campaigners during the referendum, the immigration minister has told MPs.
James Brokenshire, a close confidante of Theresa May and who has been tipped as her potential successor as home secretary, confirmed that work has started within the Home Office on detailing the options for Britain's new immigration system that will curb the free flow of EU migration to the UK. "The prime minister has said that free movement cannot continue it its present form," he said.
The immigration minister told the home affairs select committee on Tuesday that talks in the last three weeks with the Irish government had reaffirmed the desire of both the UK and Ireland to preserve their joint common travel area that has existed since 1922 when Britain leaves the European Union.
Brokenshire, who advised the MPs not to believe everything they read in the newspapers about his own immediate prospects, confirmed that the government will not unilaterally guarantee the future position post-Brexit of the estimated 2.9 million EU nationals currently lawfully resident in Britain until the position of UK citizens in EU countries is also secured.
He did however try to reassure EU citizens who have been long-term residents in Britain by conceding it was very difficult to remove from the country people who have lived here for at least five years. Under EU law citizens of other EU countries have a permanent right to live in the UK if they have been in Britain for five years. 
"Having established that right, I think, as a matter of law, it would be virtually impossible... to then take that away from them," said Brokenshire.
He disclosed that a Home Office "international immigration group" has already started work on mapping out the options for a post-Brexit immigration system that is feeding into the Cabinet Office's central co-ordination Brexit unit under Olly Martins.
 Related:  What is Australia's points-based immigration system?
 UK Visas and Immigration are also working on the operational impact of various possibilities although the Home Office along with the rest of Whitehall undertook no contingency planning before the referendum result.
"The Home Office work is to look at the various different options," said Brokenshire. "It is not necessarily that the points-based system is the right way to do it. There are other arrangements that could be considered as well," he said in reference to the Ukip immigration policy that was embraced by Michael Gove and Boris Johnson during the referendum campaign. 
The Australian system sees about 15% of work visas issued to migrants on the basis of their skills and Brokenshire's decision to distance May's government from the central Leave pledge shows that they are not going to be tied to specific pledges made by Brexiteers.
He said he could not spell out the options any further in advance of the negotiations in the interests of getting the best possible deal for Britain.
The immigration minister however did hold out the prospect that free movement will continue between Britain and Ireland as it has done since 1922. He said both government had agreed their "joint desire to preserve the common travel area" even though the border between the Republic and Northern Ireland will now become an external EU frontier.
Brokenshire said that the fact this arrangement pre-dated Britain's membership of the European Union and that it "would not impact on the security of the Schengen area" - the passport free zone between the other 26 EU states meant ministers were hopeful it could be preserved. However the European commission has yet to give any indication of its approach on the issue.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               390 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 12, 2016 Tuesday 4:16 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Wimbledon win worth less for Serena Williams due to sterling turmoil; Women's champion receives £2m ($2.63m) payout that had been worth $2.97m before plunge in value of pound after Brexit vote

BYLINE: Sean Farrell

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 265 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Serena Williams, the 2016 Wimbledon women's champion, has become a surprise casualty of the economic fallout from the Brexit vote.
The American tennis player racked up a straight-sets victory over Angelique Kerber in the final on Saturday, winning £2m ($2.63m) in prize money. 
However, the sum would have been worth $2.97m on 23 June, the day of the EU referendum, the result of which sent the pound plunging on currency markets. 
It means that Williams, 34, lost out on $340,000, along with about $33,000 that was knocked off her share of the prize money for winning the women's doubles with her sister Venus.
The financial blow was partly cushioned by an inflation-busting 7% increase in Wimbledon singles prize money from £1.88m last year, when Serena also won the women's title. However, the decline in the value of sterling means that she will take home less in dollars this year than in 2015.
The pound has fallen by about 10% since the day after the referendum as traders sell the currency on the expectation of an economic slowdown and interest rate cuts. On 24 June, sterling had its biggest fall in recent history, and it has since touched a series of 31-year lows against the dollar.
Williams is unlikely to lose too much sleep over the effect of sterling's fall on her Wimbledon earnings. She is the highest-earning female tennis player, having won $81m in prize money, a figure that she has supplemented with endorsements and other earnings.
Her seventh Wimbledon singles victory made Williams the third-biggest prizewinner in tennis history, behind Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               391 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 10:20 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Chris Grayling: May promised me she will honour EU vote; Leave campaigner who is tipped for leading role in new cabinet says PM has given a personal pledge that Brexit means Brexit

BYLINE: Matthew Weaver

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 391 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has given an eye-to-eye commitment to leading leave campaigner Chris Grayling that she intends to honour the referendum vote by taking Britain out of the European Union.
Grayling, who was May's campaign manager in her leadership bid and has been tipped for a leading role in her first cabinet, revealed she had given him a personal pledge as well as her public commitment to Brexit. 
Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Grayling said: "I looked her in the eye, I got a promise from her that she really meant that Brexit meant Brexit. And I feel very happy that she is the person with the experience and the skills ... [to] do this and do this well. 
"We need to take this process carefully, we shouldn't rush into triggering article 50, we should do our preparatory work, we should be certain about what our objectives are and then we should start the formal process."
May, who campaigned on the remain side in the referendum, has also pledged to appoint a leave campaigner to a new cabinet role of Brexit minister. 
Grayling, who has been named as a possible candidate for the role, said this was a "very sensible" pledge. He added: "It will ensure confidence amongst those who did campaign to leave that they have a champion who believes in what they campaigned for. Who that is will be a matter for Theresa, but it is right and proper that that process should be led by someone who is at the heart of the leave campaign."
Asked if he would be happy if none of the key offices of state went to leave campaigners, Grayling said: "It is very important that Theresa now looks upon the party as not Brexiters, not stayers ... but as a team of Conservatives who have a mandate from the country to deliver not simply Brexit, but also the agenda we were elected on a year ago."
He also played down speculation that  May would try to move closer to a 50-50 gender balance in the cabinet. 
He said: "I doubt if Theresa will be looking at it on a statistical basis, but she has always been a champion of getting more women into parliament.
"I very much believe it is about the best people for the job. Of course Theresa is going to want to make sure she has got a balanced ticket that represents the views of different parts of the party, every sensible prime minister does that, but it is also important that we get the right people for the roles."


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               392 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 7:36 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Poundland's bid decision is fine - but please don't use Brexit as the excuse; A bid of 220p a share for Poundland is reasonable, but using Brexit as an excuse for selling is just feeble

BYLINE: Nils Pratley

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 521 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Darren Shapland, chairman of Poundland, offered two reasons for submitting to Steinhoff's £597m bid. The first was par for the course and legitimate. The South African outfit is a decent employer and is offering a price that Poundland, even with its freshly minted turnaround plan, might not be able to achieve for ages under its own steam.
A take-out price of 220p compares with 150p before the action started. That's an honourable premium to accept, even if Poundland was trading above 350p last year before its messy purchase of 99p Stores.
Then came the other explanation. "In addition, the UK's decision to leave the EU has increased short-term uncertainty," said the company. Too feeble.
OK, at a push, one can believe that a 10% fall in the pound against the dollar will weaken Poundland's buying clout on imported goods. But it seems equally possible that discount stores such as Poundland could be beneficiaries of Brexit if shoppers feel poorer. The punters may look to recoup the pounds they lose on pricier petrol by topping up on Poundland's cheap toothpaste and tat. The precise on-the-ground impact of Brexit on retailers is hard to predict.
In any case, "short-term" worries are rarely a good basis on which to sell a company. If Poundland was really so risk-averse, it should never have bought 99p Stores. In doing so, it put itself at the mercy of a competition inquiry, which duly proved disruptive.
Perhaps we will have to get used to company chairmen citing Brexit to support any decision under the sun. It is not compulsory to share Wetherspoons publican Tim Martin's upbeat view that exit from the EU is a "Magna Carta moment" that will bring greater democracy and prosperity to the UK. But, please, if you're going to play the Brexit card and warble airily about "increased uncertainties", explain why your business is too rigid to adapt.
                   A good time to drop Hinkley Point C                   
If Theresa May is looking for an excuse to ditch Hinkley Point C, here it is: a stinging report from the National Audit Office on the potential cost of the proposed nuclear power station in Somerset.
Energy consumers could end up paying £29.7bn in top-up payments under the contract granted to EDF, Hinkley's French state-backed developer. That compares with £6.1bn in October 2013 when the strike-price for the 35-year contract was agreed.
The difference, as the NAO states, is a function of the movement in wholesale energy prices. The more wholesale prices fall, the bigger the subsidy appears. Over 35 years, the Department of Energy and Climate Change might counter, anything could happen.
Well, yes, but a difference of £20bn-plus is hard to dismiss as mere theoretical modelling or the inevitable price to be paid for the certainty of nuclear-generated electricity. It would be rational for a government presented with a report like the NAO's to re-examine the financial logic of Hinkley.
Legally, it may be too late and the ball may already be in EDF's court. But, given the months of procrastination on the French side, the company may also want an excuse to drop Hinkley. Go for it, Mrs May.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               393 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 1:13 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: £1 buys just (EURO)1 in some UK airports; Research shows exchange rates at bureaux de change have sunk to new lows against the euro and dollar after Brexit vote

BYLINE: Miles Brignall

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 465 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The low exchange rates offered by airport bureaux de change have been exposed after researchers found some offering just (EURO)1 to the pound, and similarly poor rates for US dollars.
Holidaymakers using the Moneycorp exchange booth at Bristol airport on Monday to buy £1,000 worth of currency were being offered just (EURO)1.0008 - almost parity with the pound - and just $1.054 if heading to the US.
The rates on offer at ICE bureaux de change at Luton and Edinburgh airports were barely higher, with those travelling to the eurozone getting (EURO)1.007 for £1,000. The rates offered at all the big airports were substantially down on what customers would get if they pre-ordered currency, or used their bank card in foreign ATMs.
Since the Brexit vote the pound has been hovering around the (EURO)1.18 level - down from a pre-vote (EURO)1.30. The tourist rates offered to those who just turn up at airline booths without pre-booking their holiday currency have long been poor, but appear to have hit a new low.
Currency specialist Caxton FX surveyed the walk-up rates at the UK's biggest airports on Monday and the findings will shock those planning to buy foreign currency this summer. The ICE booths at both Heathrow and Gatwick were offering those heading to Europe the best rates - (EURO)1.07 for every pound swapped. 
For those heading to the US it was a similar story. Travellers through Heathrow got the best walk-up rates, but it was still a lowly $1.19 for every pound. 
Since Monday, sterling has rallied a little, but remains substantially down on the levels prior to the referendum. One pound currently buys around $1.30 on the foreign exchange markets.
Rupert Lee Browne, CEO of Caxton FX, said: "Currency exchange bureaux at the airport have a captive audience, so they can offer outrageously poor rates and are still confident that people will purchase foreign currency from them." 
Koko Sarkari, who runs ICE, said: "We work hard to keep our prices fair and competitive around the world. However, due to differences in distribution, costs of operation, regional competition and other factors such as ongoing volatility in the market, online prices may not be the same as our ICE branch prices. Prices may also vary between branches because of these factors."
Experts say travellers can boost their foreign spending power by getting the best possible rate when accessing foreign currency. Pre-paid cards offer substantially better rates, as do certain bank cards. Pre-ordering currency from the big providers - either for home delivery or for pick-up - will also result in consumers getting better rates. 
The ICE website showed it offering (EURO)1.17 on Wednesday for home delivery compared with the (EURO)1.007 its airport booths were offering on Monday - a difference of almost 14%. 


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (55%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               394 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Airbus warns of Brexit risk to UK jobsGARY DAWSON

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 493 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's commercial aerospace industry will come to a post-Brexit crossroads within three years when Airbus decides where to build its next-generation A30X.
The Franco-German aircraft maker warned yesterday that if there was any financial, bureaucratic or freedom-ofmovement impediment in post-Brexit trade within the EU, it would not hand billions of pounds' worth of new work to the UK.
"The conditions have to be no less favourable than they are today," Tom Williams, Airbus's chief operating officer, said of the chances of its wing design and engineering base, at Filton near Bristol, and its wing manufacturing facility, at Broughton near Chester, winning work on the A30X.
"No facility has a God-given right to any work package. The message has to be that all of our plants have to be competitive. At present, the UK is competitive and it has to remain that way." Mr Williams, the highest-ranking Briton in Airbus, said that the heat around a British exit from the European Union was not immediate because the company had no new big investment decisions to take in its commercial aircraft business for the next two to three years.
However, big decisions need to be made in three to four years around where the A30X will be built. The aircraft is seen as a super-efficient shortrange aircraft for 2025 onwards and Airbus's investment decisions will include those around British facilities. Filton employs 4,000 designers and engineers and Broughton employs 7,000 manufacturing workers.
Speaking at the Farnborough International Airshow, Mr Williams said that among the issues around a post-Brexit settlement were whether Airbus UK factories would be plagued with paperwork and tariff costs for moving components to and from other European facilities and its headquarters in Toulouse in France.
Just as important, he said, was the ability to move senior people around. Mr Williams calculated that Airbus had 600 non-UK nationals working in England and Wales and 1,500 Britons working in facilities on the Continent.
"I don't want to have to be dealing with visas and work permits and having people delayed by three months," he said. He added there were wider issues of being able to attract the best physics and maths talent in Europe able to work unfettered in a trans-national group.
Paul Kahn, president of Airbus UK, was one of the first business leaders last year to warn of the dangers of Britain leaving the EU, causing a storm by stating: "Would Airbus reconsider future investment in the UK? Yes, absolutely."
He said that post-Brexit he expected the British government to step in to make sure that companies such as Airbus UK continued to win inward investment.
Asked whether he expected government incentives, he said: "Yes we do. We think the government will intensify the partnership approach it has with the aerospace and defence industries." On the Brexit outcome, Mr Kahn said: "We are playing it cool but future investment does come under review."
Graphic
Work on wings for the double-decker Airbus 380, the world's largest passenger airliner, takes place at Filton and Broughton


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); BRISTOL, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); ENGLAND (79%); WALES (79%); GERMANY (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               395 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 10:40 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Barratt says it could slow housebuilding rate following Brexit vote; Company rethinking building and land buying plans due to uncertainty caused by EU referendum outcome

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 389 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's biggest housebuilder has said it could reduce the rate at which it builds new homes as the company prepares for a possible slowdown following Britain's vote to leave the EU.
                     Barratt Developments was the biggest faller on the FTSE 100 on Wednesday morning, after the housebuilder said it was rethinking its building and land buying programmes because the outlook for the industry was uncertain.
David Thomas, Barratt's chief executive, said: "Following the EU referendum, we are mindful of the greater uncertainty now facing the UK economy. Consequently, the immediate outlook for our industry is less clear and it is too early to draw any conclusions regarding market conditions from the short trading period since the referendum. 
"We had contingency plans in place and we have taken appropriate measures to reduce our risk, such as reassessing land approvals, as we continue to monitor the market."
Thomas, who backed the Remain camp in the run-up to the vote on 23 June, told Reuters that Barratt would be looking at "the extent to which we should slow down our build programmes", as well as whether or not to bid for land coming on to the market.
Barratt shares fell by more than 4% to 395p in early trading. 
In a trading update for the year ending 30 June, the housebuilder said sales completions increased by 5.3% to 17,319 homes, as a result of "strong consumer demand" during the year.
Pre-tax profit was expected to soar by 20% to about £680m. The average selling price of a private home rose by 10.5% in the year to £290,000.
However, the housing market is expected to slow following the Brexit vote, as consumers become more cautious about major purchases against a backdrop of increased economic uncertainty. 
In the weekend that followed the referendum, estate agent Haart reported an 11% rise in the number of people pulling out of property deals, compared with the corresponding weekend in June 2015. 
Consumer confidence plummeted in the aftermath of the vote, as the British public voiced concerns about a potential recession and rising inflation.
Despite his cautious tone, Thomas said Barratt, and the housing industry in general, were in good shape. "The sector continues to receive focused government support, mortgage availability is good and there remains an undersupply of new homes," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               396 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Billionaires bought Brexit - they are controlling our venal political system; We may be told donors do not influence policy, but anywhere else our setup would be seen as corruption

BYLINE: George Monbiot

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1038 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Is this a democracy or is it a plutocracy? Between people and power is a filter through which decisions are made, a filter made of money. In the European referendum, remain won 46% of the money given and lent to the two sides (£20.4m) and 48% of the vote; leave won 54% of the money and 52% of the vote. This fearful symmetry should worry anyone who values democracy. Did the vote follow the money? Had the spending been the other way round, would the result have reflected that? These should not be questions you need to ask in a democracy.
 Related:  The Guardian view on paying for politics: stop this attempt to undermine democracy | Editorial
If spending has no impact, no one told the people running the campaigns: both sides worked furiously at raising funds, sometimes from gruesome people. The top donor was the stockbroker Peter Hargreaves, who gave £3.2m to Leave.eu. He explained his enthusiasm for leaving the EU thus: "It would be the biggest stimulus to get our butts in gear that we have ever had ... We will get out there and we will be become incredibly successful because we will be insecure again. And insecurity is fantastic."
No one voted for such people, yet they are granted power over our lives. It is partly because the political system is widely perceived to be on sale that people have become so alienated. Paradoxically, political alienation appears to have boosted the leave vote. The leave campaign thrived on the public disgust generated by the system that helped it to win.
If politics in Britain no longer serves the people, our funding system has a lot to do with it. While in most other European nations, political parties and campaigns are largely financed by the state, in Britain they are largely funded by millionaires, corporations and trade unions. Most people are not fools, and they rightly perceive that meaningful choices are being made in private, without democratic consent. Where there is meaning, there is no choice; where there is choice, there is no meaning.
Politicians insist that donors have no influence on policy, but you would have to be daft to believe it. The fear of losing money is a constant anxiety, and consciously or subconsciously people with an instinct for self-preservation will adapt their policies to suit those most likely to fund them. Nor does it matter whether policies follow the money or money follows the policies: those whose proposals appeal to the purse-holders will find it easier to raise funds.
Sometimes the relationship appears to be immediate. Before the last general election, 27 of the 59 richest hedge fund managers in Britain sponsored the Conservatives. Perhaps these donations had nothing to do with the special exemption from stamp duty on stock market transactions the chancellor granted to hedge funds, depriving the public sector  of about £145m a year. But that doesn't seem likely.
At the Conservatives' annual Black and White Ball, you get the access you pay for : £5,000 buys you the company of a junior minister; £15,000, a cabinet minister. Politicians insist that there's no relationship between donations and appointments to the House of Lords, but a study at Oxford University found that the probability of this being true is "approximately equivalent to entering the national lottery and winning the jackpot five times in a row".
We might not have had a say in the choice of the new prime minister, but I bet there was a lively conversation between Conservative MPs and their major funders.
Among the many reasons for the crisis in the Labour party is the desertion of its large private donors. One of them, the corporate lawyer Ian Rosenblatt, complains : "I don't think Jeremy Corbyn or anyone around him is remotely interested in whether people like me support the party or not." Why should the leader of the Labour party have to worry about the support of one person ahead of the votes of millions?
The former Labour adviser Ayesha Hazarika urged Corbyn to overcome his scruples : "Meeting rich people and asking for money is not exactly part of the brand that has been so successful among his party faithful. But ... sometimes you just have to suck it up and do things you don't like."
Under our current system she might be right, not least because the Conservatives have cut Labour's other sources of funding : trade union fees and public money. But what an indictment of the system that is. During the five years before the last election, 41% of the private donations made to political parties came from just 76 people. This is what plutocracy looks like.
Stand back from this system and marvel at what we have come to accept. If we saw it anywhere else, we would immediately recognise it as corruption. Why should parties have to grovel to oligarchs to win elections? Or, for that matter, trade unions?
The political system should be owned by everyone, not by a subset. But the corruption at its heart has become so normalised that we can scarcely see it.
 Related:  Two-fifths of British political donations made by just 76 people
Here is one way in which we could reform our politics. Each party would be allowed to charge the same fee for membership - a modest amount, perhaps £20. The state would then match this money, at a fixed ratio. And that would be it. There would be no other funding for political parties. The system would be simple, transparent and entirely dependent on the enthusiasm politicians could generate. They would have a powerful incentive to burst their bubbles and promote people's re-engagement with politics. The funding of referendums would be even simpler: the state would provide an equal amount for each side.
The commonest argument against such arrangements is that we can't afford them. Really? We can't afford, say, £50m for a general election, but we can afford the crises caused by the corruption of politics? We could afford the financial crisis, which arose from politicians' unwillingness to regulate their paymasters. We can afford the costs of Brexit, which might have been bought by a handful of millionaires.
Those who urged us to leave the EU promised that we would take back control. Well, this is where it should begin.
A fully linked version of this article can be found at Monbiot.com


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               397 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit campaign groups eye next chapter; EU referendum fallout

BYLINE: Henry Mance and Kate Allen

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Campaigners behind the two main Brexit groups, Vote Leave and Leave. EU, plan to re-establish their efforts into anti-EU pressure groups that could act as a constraint on Theresa May .
Their activism reflects continuing scepticism among some Brexiters about the new prime minister, who backed the Remain campaign and has said she would not trigger Article 50 this year .
"There is quite a big consensus that there needs to be some kind of an organisation continuing to make the case for Leave, and ensuring we get the best possible deal for the UK," said a senior figure in one of the groups.
Their move comes after the downfall of the leaders of the Leave campaign, with Boris Johnson, Michael Gove and Nigel Farage all stepping back.
Some MPs and EU leaders have already called on Mrs May to bring forward negotiations after her quicker than expected victory in the Conservative party leadership election.
One Tory MP, Peter Lilley, told the FT that the UK could leave "in months rather than years" - by not agreeing trade deals until after it left. That contrasts with the view of Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary and an ally of Mrs May, who said yesterday that Brexit could take as long as six years.
James Brokenshire, immigration minister, rowed back from the points-based immigration system proposed by Leave campaigners on Tuesday. He told the Home Affairs select committee that there were "other arrangements that could be considered as well" and that work had begun on designing a new immigration system.
Vote Leave, the official Out campaign, and Leave. EU, a group linked to the UK Independence party, were both created specifically for the referendum campaign. They claimed to have built large databases of voter information, and won praise for their aggressive use of social media .
In an email to supporters this month, Vote Leave said: "Westminster cannot be relied upon. Taking back control to Britain is just the first step . . . We need organisations like Vote Leave to operate permanently to give a voice to those who otherwise won't be heard."
Leave. EU said it had collected more than 1m email addresses during the campaign. It plans to relaunch on September 1, as "Ukip on steroids; rebranded," said a spokesman.
Key issues for Brexiters include what restrictions on free movement Mrs May seeks, and who she appoints to key Cabinet roles. Leave. EU backed Andrea Leadsom to become prime minister, and is likely to want Cabinet jobs for some of her supporters. Vote Leave, in contrast, has championed MPs with "skills needed to manage normal government departments".
One MP who supported Mrs Leadsom in the leadership contest said it was "gravely important" that both the Fresh Start group of moderate Eurosceptic MPs and the party's longer-standing Eurosceptics should be represented in the new government. "It would be a grave mistake to reject those people's experience," he said.
FT Big Read page 9


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               398 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could take six years, says Hammond

BYLINE: David Charter ;Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 671 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Disentangling Britain from the European Union could take six years, Philip Hammond said yesterday: two years to negotiate and a further four years to ratify fully.
The foreign secretary said: "Until we have served an Article 50 notice, we remain a full, participating member of the EU and our ability to negotiate new trade agreements is restricted by the continued application of EU law until we have negotiated our exit."
He was speaking after Angela Merkel signalled that she would push for a business-as-usual approach to trade with the UK after Brexit. The German chancellor, who met Enda Kenny, the Irish prime minister, in Berlin yesterday, said that she wanted to ensure the impact of Brexit was "as small as possible" for the remaining 27 EU countries. Mrs Merkel and Mr Kenny added to the pressure on Theresa May to give "clarity" on Britain's post-EU strategy soon and set the formal process in motion to settle the new relationship between Britain and Europe. The pair will be Britain's biggest allies in the EU in the months of hard bargaining that lie ahead, with both nations having close trade and travel relationships with the UK.
"Every member state has the same objective to make sure that our membership is not hard hit or too much affected by the decision taken by the citizens of the UK," Mrs Merkel said. "This is why we are going to lead the negotiations together in the spirit that we want to keep the impact as small as possible for all of us. But it is difficult to give guarantees at this point in time: we do not even have any idea about the position of the UK."
Her words may help to calm the fears of those who wanted to remain in the EU to avoid disrupting Britain's trading relationship - although she does not speak for all EU nations.
French politicians have taken a more hardline stance, suggesting that Angela Merkel wants to keep the impact of Brexit "as small as possible" Britain's trade relationship may suffer. The car industry is a powerful consideration for Mrs Merkel and she wants to avoid the worst-case scenario of 10 per cent tariffs being placed on cars if a preferential trade arrangement cannot be agreed. Germany sells more cars to Britain than to any other country, with 810,000 exported last year, while half of the 2.6 million cars sold in Britain last year were built by German-owned companies.
Mr Kenny sought Mrs Merkel's help in keeping Ireland's land border with the UK open after Brexit. He wanted the British government to trigger Article 50 as soon as possible. "What does Britain want, having made the decision to exit from the EU, and at what stage will a British prime minister trigger Article 50?" Mr Kenny said. "Would that be a prolonged period - which I would not favour - or would it be after a short time when the new prime minister would have assessed her strategy?" Mrs May is under immediate pressure from France and the European Commission to trigger the exit clause before her stated deadline of the end of the year. Michel Sapin, the French finance minister, accused Britain of a "total lack of preparation" for a successful Brexit vote and a "lack of understanding of the mechanisms". Meanwhile, most voters believe that a cross-party team of politicians, businesses and trade unions should negotiate Britain's exit from the EU but do not want Nigel Farage to be involved, according to polling. Research for the TUC found that 69 per cent of Remain supporters and 65 per cent of Leave backers want the group leading the discussions to be drawn from across the political spectrum. Fifty-two per cent oppose Mr Farage, the former Ukip leader, playing any role in the process. ? A petition signed by more than four million people calling for a second EU referendum will be debated in parliament in September. However, the petitions committee reminded the public that simply having a debate on the issue did not mean that parliament had the power to order a second vote. The online petition was set up on May 25 by a Leave voter worried that Remain would win.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); IRELAND (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               399 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could take six years, says Hammond

BYLINE: David Charter ;Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 667 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Disentangling Britain from the European Union could take six years, Philip Hammond said yesterday: two years to negotiate and a further four years to fully ratify.
The foreign secretary said: "Until we have served an Article 50 notice, we remain a full, participating member of the EU and our ability to negotiate new trade agreements is restricted by the continued application of EU law until we have negotiated our exit."
He was speaking after Angela Merkel signalled that she would push for a business-as-usual approach to trade with the UK after Brexit. The German chancellor, who met Enda Kenny, the Irish prime minister, in Berlin yesterday, said that she wanted to ensure the impact of Brexit was "as small as possible" for the remaining 27 EU countries. Mrs Merkel and Mr Kenny added to the pressure on Theresa May to give "clarity" on Britain's post-EU strategy soon and set the formal process in motion to settle the new relationship between Britain and Europe. The pair will be Britain's biggest allies in the EU in the months of hard bargaining that lie ahead, with both nations having close trade and travel relationships with the UK.
"Every member state has the same objective to make sure that our membership is not hard hit or too much affected by the decision taken by the citizens of the UK," Mrs Merkel said. "This is why we are going to lead the negotiations together in the spirit that we want to keep the impact as small as possible for all of us. But it is difficult to give guarantees at this point in time: we do not even have any idea about the position of the UK."
Her words may help to calm the fears of those who wanted to remain in the EU to avoid disrupting Britain's trading relationship - although she does not speak for all EU nations.
French politicians have taken a more hardline stance, suggesting that Angela Merkel wants to keep the impact of Brexit "as small as possible" Britain's trade relationship may suffer. The car industry is a powerful consideration for Mrs Merkel and she wants to avoid the worst-case scenario of 10 per cent tariffs being placed on cars if a preferential trade arrangement cannot be agreed. Germany sells more cars to Britain than to any other country, with 810,000 exported last year, while half of the 2.6 million cars sold in Britain last year were built by German-owned companies.
Mr Kenny sought Mrs Merkel's help in keeping Ireland's land border with the UK open after Brexit. He wanted the British government to trigger Article 50 as soon as possible. "What does Britain want, having made the decision to exit from the EU, and at what stage will a British prime minister trigger Article 50?" Mr Kenny said. "Would that be a prolonged period - which I would not favour - or would it be after a short time when the new prime minister would have assessed her strategy?" Mrs May is under immediate pressure from France and the European Commission to trigger the exit clause before her stated deadline of the end of the year. Michel Sapin, the French finance minister, accused Britain of a "total lack of preparation" for a successful Brexit vote and a "lack of understanding of the mechanisms". "One of Europe's problems is the slow process of this decision. They must be very concrete and advance more quickly," he said at a meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels. He warned that the new prime minister faced a "tough negotiation" on the terms of a British exit, as France steps up a campaign to end the City of London's dominance of financial markets. "It could be a rough confrontation. We French will be one of the most demanding countries," he added.
? A petition signed by more than four million people calling for a second EU referendum will be debated in parliament in September. However, the petitions committee reminded the public that simply having a debate on the issue did not mean that parliament had the power to order a second vote. The online petition was set up on May 25 by a Leave voter worried that Remain would win.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); IRELAND (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               400 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 13, 2016 Wednesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could take six years, says Hammond

BYLINE: David Charter; Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Disentangling Britain from the European Union could take six years, Philip Hammond said yesterday: two years to negotiate and a further four years to fully ratify.
The foreign secretary said: "Until we have served an Article 50 notice, we remain a full, participating member of the EU and our ability to negotiate new trade agreements is restricted by the continued application of EU law until we have negotiated our exit."
He was speaking after Angela Merkel signalled that she would push for a business-as-usual approach to trade with the UK after Brexit. The German chancellor, who met Enda Kenny, the Irish prime minister, in Berlin yesterday, said that she wanted to ensure the impact of Brexit was "as small as possible" for the remaining 27 EU countries.
Mrs Merkel and Mr Kenny added to the pressure on Theresa May to give "clarity" on Britain's post-EU strategy soon and set the formal process in motion to settle the new relationship between Britain and Europe. The pair will be Britain's biggest allies in the EU in the months of hard bargaining that lie ahead, with both nations having close trade and travel relationships with the UK.
"Every member state has the same objective to make sure that our membership is not hard hit or too much affected by the decision taken by the citizens of the UK," Mrs Merkel said. "This is why we are going to lead the negotiations together in the spirit that we want to keep the impact as small as possible for all of us. But it is difficult to give guarantees at this point in time: we do not even have any idea about the position of the UK."
Her words may help to calm the fears of those who wanted to remain in the EU to avoid disrupting Britain's trading relationship - although she does not speak for all EU nations.
French politicians have taken a more hardline stance, suggesting that Angela Merkel wants to keep the impact of Brexit "as small as possible" Britain's trade relationship may suffer.
The car industry is a powerful consideration for Mrs Merkel and she wants to avoid the worst-case scenario of 10 per cent tariffs being placed on cars if a preferential trade arrangement cannot be agreed. Germany sells more cars to Britain than to any other country, with 810,000 exported last year, while half of the 2.6 million cars sold in Britain last year were built by German-owned companies.
Mr Kenny sought Mrs Merkel's help in keeping Ireland's land border with the UK open after Brexit. He wanted the British government to trigger Article 50 as soon as possible. "What does Britain want, having made the decision to exit from the EU, and at what stage will a British prime minister trigger Article 50?" Mr Kenny said. "Would that be a prolonged period - which I would not favour - or would it be after a short time when the new prime minister would have assessed her strategy?"
Mrs May is under immediate pressure from France and the European Commission to trigger the exit clause before her stated deadline of the end of the year. Michel Sapin, the French finance minister, accused Britain of a "total lack of preparation" for a successful Brexit vote and a "lack of understanding of the mechanisms".
"One of Europe's problems is the slow process of this decision. They must be very concrete and advance more quickly," he said at a meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels. He warned that the new prime minister faced a "tough negotiation" on the terms of a British exit, as France steps up a campaign to end the City of London's dominance of financial markets. "It could be a rough confrontation. We French will be one of the most demanding countries," he added.
A petition signed by more than four million people calling for a second EU referendum will be debated in parliament in September. However, the petitions committee reminded the public that simply having a debate on the issue did not mean that parliament had the power to order a second vote. The online petition was set up on May 25 by a Leave voter worried that Remain would win.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); IRELAND (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               401 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 10:30 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Colombia faces Brexit-style 'great dilemma' in vote to end war with Farc; In a plebiscite this year, Colombians will accept or reject a peace deal between the government and Farc guerrillas to end more than half a century of war

BYLINE: Sibylla Brodzinsky in Bogotá

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 919 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: There's nothing Alexa Sarmiento would like better than to see her country at peace. Having grown up in Colombia's violence-plagued eastern plains region, she has seen more than her share of conflict.
But Sarmiento says she's unsure if she will vote yes or no in a plebiscite later this year in which Colombians will be asked to accept or reject a peace deal between the government and leftist Farc guerrillas that would end more than half a century of war. 
"I do want the conflict to end, but it seems to me like the government has given in too much to the Farc," says Sarmiento, 19, who is studying to become a social worker. 
"But if I vote no, then what?" she asks herself. "Fifty more years of war? Is it responsible to do that?" 
 Related:  The Guardian view on Colombia: peace beckons | Editorial
Many Colombians find themselves in a similar predicament. The peace accords that have yet to be finalised, and the country is bracing for a heated campaign for the "yes" and "no" votes in the plebiscite, which could come by the end of September. 
The outcome will be binding, according to a ruling handed down on Monday by the constitutional court. 
Like the EU referendum in Britain, it's a risky proposition: a simple yes/no vote over a complicated deal which is broadly supported by the international community, but which provokes visceral rancour among many ordinary voters. 
Most Colombians who plan to vote say they would approve the accords, but some analysts warn that widespread hostility to the Farc could lead to a surprise outcome.
In the latest Gallup poll, of the 40% of respondents who said they would definitely vote in the plebiscite, 70% said they would support the agreements between the Farc and government. 
But in a separate poll by Ipsos, 84% said they believed Farc leaders should pay for their crimes in prison, although the accords reached in Havana specify that guerrillas who confess would be eligible to alternative sentences and do no jail time at all. More than 70% say the leaders should not be allowed to participate in politics, which the accords would allow. 
"Colombians face a great dilemma," said political analyst Fernando Giraldo. "They want peace [but] they don't want it to cost them anything." 
The battle for votes began to take shape in the opening session of Congress on Wednesday, with parties allied with the government waving posters reading "Yes to peace" while opposition lawmakers from the right-of-centre Centro Democrático party held up placards with an image of the Colombian flag and a black ribbon of mourning. 
Groups opposed to the deal - led by former president Alvaro Uribe, who is now a senator - say they too want peace but not at any price. 
Colombia's president Juan Manuel Santos, who was not legally obligated to call a vote on the accords, has said since the negotiations with the rebels began in 2012 that the Colombian people would have the last word on a peace deal. But the peace process has failed to generate the enthusiasm one might expect from a society that has lived with war for so long. 
Santos has made the peace process with the Farc a banner of his presidency. While those efforts have won him international praise at home his approval rating dipped to just 21% - even lower than even beleaguered Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro next door - before recovering slightly last month to 30%.
Santos has tried to send the message that voters need not support him to support peace. "Peace is not mine. Peace is not my government's," he said in an address to a joint session of congress Wednesday. 
Santos has said that if the "no" vote wins, the peace process ends and the country will have lost its best chance to end a conflict that has killed some 230,000 people - mostly civilians - and displaced more than six million. Tens of thousands of people have been forcibly disappeared and thousands have been maimed by landmines. 
A Farc commander who goes by the name Alberto Camacho seemed certain that Colombians would vote in favour of the accords. "I cannot believe that in a country where so many people have suffered so much, more than half of the population would reject a peace deal," he said in a recent interview with the Guardian. 
But critics say that the agreements reached in Havana with the Farc will set the stage for further violence in the country. "Experience has shown that a bad negotiation brings more violence," says senator Ernesto Macias, of Uribe's Centro Democrático party. 
Even before the plebiscite was approved by the constitutional court, the party had started a campaign of "civil resistance" against the accords, collecting signatures throughout the country. 
 Related:  'Unarmed, we are nothing': Farc guerrillas wary of future without guns
The Centro Democrático party has not yet decided whether it will campaign for a "no" vote in the plebiscite or call on its followers to stay away from the polls altogether, says Macías. 
Despite the poll numbers appearing to favour the "yes" vote, Giraldo says it would be dangerous to believe approval of the accords is a foregone conclusion. 
"We could face a situation similar to the United Kingdom with the Brexit vote," he said. "In these issues that touch such fundamental emotions, you can't count on any given outcome." 
Consultant María Pabon, 54 said she harbours anger toward the Farc for the atrocities they committed during their decades-long fight, but her choice for peace is clear. 
"I will be pragmatic and vote yes," she says. "But I will do it with a broken heart."


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               402 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Daily Mail group hit by Brexit uncertainty

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 133 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The owner of Britain's Daily Mail newspaper, which urged Britons to vote Leave in the EU referendum, said yesterday that the Brexit result had sparked uncertainty in advertising and property markets.
In the three-month period to June 30th, Daily Mail and General Trust said total advertising revenues across its DMG Media unit were down by an underlying 4 per cent - with a 10 per cent decline in print advertising being partly offset by 12 per cent growth in digital ads.
In the three weeks since June 26th, and after the June 23rd referendum, the advertising market improved slightly, with print advertising down 8 per cent and digital advertising growing 19 per cent.
"The Brexit result has created some uncertainty, notably in respect of the UK advertising and property markets," it said. - (Reuters)


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               403 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Daily Mail sees Brexit bounce in advertising revenues; Media

BYLINE: David Bond, Media Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 467 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Daily Mail and General Trust has delivered much-needed good news for the UK newspaper industry with a small increase in advertising revenues in the immediate aftermath of Brexit.
The owner of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday and Mail Online said advertising across its media division increased 1 per cent in the three weeks after the EU referendum. A 19 per cent rise in digital advertising revenues offset an 8 per cent fall in newspaper advertising.
Analysts had predicted economic uncertainty created by the vote to leave the EU would amplify an alarming decline in print advertising revenues , as companies braced for a slowdown in the UK economy.
But after the initial shock of the June 23 vote, Daily Mail and General Trust said advertisers had decided to get on with "business as usual".
"We are really encouraged by what's happened since Brexit," said Stephen Daintith , finance director. "It's a short period and we shouldn't read too much into it, but it shows we have been more than resilient. My sense is that post-Brexit a lot of UK businesses are deciding to take the optimistic view - and the best way to do that is to support their products through advertising."
In May, DMGT sent a chill through Fleet Street when it cut its 2016 outlook for operating profit margin to 10 per cent from 13 per cent on the back of worse than expected advertising revenues in the six months to the end of March.
The latest trading results - for the three months to the end of June - still reflect those longer-term trends.
Circulation revenues dropped by 1 per cent, with falling sales of the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday cushioned by cover price rises implemented in February. Print advertising revenues dropped 10 per cent - an improvement on the 13 per cent fall announced in May - and were offset by 12 per cent growth in digital advertising.
Analysts said it was a stronger than expected performance, with Alex DeGroote at Peel Hunt impressed by the "confident tone" of the update. Numis Securities said the performance of DMGT's media division in the three weeks after Brexit was "encouraging".
Mr Daintith said the Daily Mail's campaign for Brexit was not connected to the uplift in advertising. He added that high street department stores, bookmakers and carmakers were the sectors driving the increased spend.
With more than half of DMGT's revenues coming from its largely US-based events, risk management and data businesses, the company said it also expected to benefit from the fall in the value of sterling.
The big question for newspaper owners is whether the Brexit bounce can help soften the structural challenges posed by readers' shift to digital rivals such as Facebook and Alphabet. Analysts say DMGT needs to increase its online revenues at 20 per cent each year to offset the fall in print revenues.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               404 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Dyke: Brexit may boost domestic game

BYLINE: Martyn Ziegler

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 308 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Greg Dyke has sent a farewell message to FA staff claiming Britain's departure from the European Union, plus the introduction of quotas, could end "English football's biggest problem".
Dyke, who stepped down as FA chairman yesterday, said that the influx of average European players taking the place of young English players remained a huge issue.
In a letter to FA staff, a copy of which has been seen by The Times, Dyke said: "Getting our young players real experience at the top level still remains, I believe, English football's biggest problem. Fewer home-grown players than ever started matches in the Premier League last year.
"Although I was not a supporter of Brexit, it could be that by leaving the EU this problem could be solved. If the FA and the government were to have the determination to restrict the flow of European players coming to play in Britain to the very best and introduce quotas on the number of British players in Premier League sides it could be changed quickly.
"At the moment many very average European players are increasingly taking the slots which could be going to talented young English players from clubs' academies."
Dyke conceded that England had not done well in the two senior men's tournaments during his time in office - the 2014 World Cup and Euro 2016 - but believes the foundations have been put in place for his stated ambition for England to win the World Cup in 2022.
Dyke rued his failure to bring in radical reforms to the FA's "outdated governance system" and warned that the government may eventually intervene. He pointed to progress in the women's game and the FA's role "in the movement to rid football of Sepp Blatter and the corruption which dominated Fifa".
David Gill is acting FA chairman until a replacement is appointed. Greg Clarke, the former Football League chairman, is a possible successor.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ENGLAND (91%); EUROPE (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               405 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Enterprise Ireland on post-Brexit trade blitz

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 398 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Colm Kelpie ENTERPRISE Ireland has beefed up the number of international trade missions for the remainder of its year in the wake of Brexit, with 26 ministerial-led trips set to take place. The full programme of events - 68 in total - includes ministerial-led trade missions, inward buyer visits, market study visits, international trade fairs, embassy events and knowledge seminars. They are all aimed at linking Irish companies with international buyers.
In total there will be 36 ministerial-led trade missions and associated activities this year - almost double the number in 2015.
Julie Sinnamon, Enterprise Ireland chief executive, said a key element of Enterprise Ireland's plan to support Irish exporters is around market expansion and diversification.
"We recently announced record export results of (EURO)20.6bn which demonstrates that our strategy of helping clients expand into new markets in recent years is working," Ms Sinnamon said.
"We will now intensify that approach in order to increase the opportunities for Irish exporters to scale their businesses into other global markets continuing to reduce our overall dependence on the UK market."
Ms Sinnamon said the agency's focusing on opportunities in Northern Europe, the US, Canada and other high-growth markets including the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Missions include a life sciences trade visit to the US, a financial services trade mission to China, a software and education trade mission to India, and a food-manufacturing mission to the United Arab Emirates and Iran.
Jobs Minister Mary Mitchell O'Connor said delivering a programme of ministerial-led trade missions is a key commitment in the Government's Action Plan for Jobs.
"This new programme of trade missions and events is a key element of our plan to support Irish companies from counties around Ireland to grow their businesses internationally to generate more exports and create jobs in Ireland," she said.
Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan said a key element of the Department's strategy is to use embassies, consulates and other missions to maximise opportunities for Irish companies.
"As announced earlier this week after the Export Trade Council meeting, I have recently created new commercial attaché posts in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia and Romania. This is a key part of my Department's new economic diplomacy strategy," the Minister said.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CHINA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               406 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Euro area is weathering Brexit , says Draghi

BYLINE: Ciara O'Brien

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 351 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said it was too early to assess the impact of Britain's vote to leave the EU on the euro zone's economic recovery. 
Speaking in Frankfurt after the ECB opted to keep its interest rates and stimulus unchanged, he said the ECB's accommodative monetary policy and central banks' pledges to provide liquidity had helped "keep market stress contained" after the vote.
"Following the UK referendum our assessment is that euro area financial markets have weathered the spike in uncertainty and volatility with encouraging resilience," Mr Draghi said.
The ECB left interest rates unchanged, a decision that was expected. The rate on the main refinancing operations and the interest rates on the marginal lending facility and the deposit facility currently stand as 0 per cent, 0.25 per cent and -0.40 per cent respectively. 
The governing council of the bank also confirmed the monthly asset purchases of EUR 80 billion are intended to run until the end of next March, or beyond if necessary. 
The ECB cut its deposit rate deeper into negative territory in March, expanded its asset buys and offered a fresh round of cheap loans.
Stimulus
 Italy's bank troubles, Britain's decision to leave the EU and a scarcity of bonds to buy in its asset-purchase programme may all require some action, dashing Mr Draghi's hopes that the bank was done after years of extraordinary stimulus measures.  
The ECB is buying EUR 1.74 trillion worth of assets to cut borrowing costs, induce spending, lift growth and ultimately raise inflation, which has been stuck either side of zero for the past two years. 
Brexit may be the biggest single problem, threatening to thwart a modest investment and consumption-led recovery. 
With interest rates deep in negative territory and asset buys running at EUR 80 billion per month, the ECB is running short of tools, raising the threshold for any further move if the bank is to preserve some firepower for any future shock. 
Yet some policy changes are still likely in the coming months because the ECB is running out of qualified assets to buy. - (Reuters) 


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (74%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               407 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: France backs us on Brexit in clear split with Merkel

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 277 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ? Hollande says Ireland's 'special situation' must be part of exit talks Kevin Doyle Group Political Editor FRENCH President Francois Hollande has broken ranks to publicly back Ireland's 'special case' for a place at the centre of Brexit negotiations.
While German Chancellor Angela Merkel has shown a clear reluctance to admit Ireland will need concessions, Mr Hollande said France "understands" our position is unique.
Liz O'Donnell P28 'I gasped at the bad timing of Kenny's border poll comments' "I do recognise that there is a special situation for Ireland. It's a special situation that has to be found a place in the negotiations," he said, after a meeting with Taoiseach Enda Kenny.
His remarks are a major boost for the Taoiseach after his plea for recognition of the relationship between Ireland and the UK was effectively shunned by Ms Merkel just 10 days ago. She insisted Ireland's "voice" will be equal to that of all other 27 EU Member States.
In contrast, Mr Hollande came to Dublin to declare that he wanted to be an ally during the forthcoming talks. He also acknowledged that while the two countries are the UK's closest neighbours, Ireland is "more of a neighbour than France".
After his brief visit to Dublin, Mr Hollande flew back to Paris where he met with new British Prime Minister Theresa May.
The pair clashed over the timeframe in which the UK should officially request to leave the EU, with Mr Hollande saying "the sooner the better".
Ms May indicated that she will not seek to start formal negotiations until next year.
The French President now intends to "swap views" with Ms Merkel in light of yesterday's meetings.
Full coverage, P4-7, 28-29


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (93%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (72%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               408 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hollande adopts conciliatory tone on Brexit timeframe; Leaving the EU: Future relationships

BYLINE: Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris and George Parker in London

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: François Hollande, French president, conceded that the UK needed time to prepare for complex negotiations on its future relationship with the EU following its decision to leave the bloc, while also urging Theresa May to start formal exit proceeding as soon as possible.
"There could be some preparation for this negotiation," Mr Hollande told reporters during a joint press conference with the British premier at the Elysée Palace yesterday. "But I repeat, the better, the sooner, in the common interest of Europe, the UK and our economies."
The more conciliatory than expected tone was in tune with the message conveyed by Angela Merkel, German chancellor, on Wednesday. Ms Merkel told Mrs May in Berlin that the question of Brexit could not be left "in the air" but she supported the British leader in her intention to set out the British position early in 2017.
Mr Hollande's stance yesterday evening differed from a more defiant tone hours earlier, when he told reporters in Dublin: "What is the interest of delaying? I would like justifications."
During the joint press conference however, Mr Hollande was cordial, speaking in English and making Mrs May laugh at one point.
"I had precise information about Mrs May from Manuel Valls [French PM] and Bernard Cazeneuve ]interior minister]," Mr Hollande noted. "I knew that our relationships between the two of us and our countries would live up to the history and friendship of our countries."
Both leaders even agreed to keep the so-called Touquet bilateral accord, that allows Britain to carry out border controls in France - and keep unwanted refugees at bay.
Mrs May hailed "excellent and constructive discussions" with Mr Hollande.
Mr Hollande was prompt to call for a quick Article 50 notification after the UK's Brexit vote sent shockwaves throughout the EU last month. Paris's fears were that lack of clarity would hold the EU hostage and potentially fuel contagion in other member states, which would be tempted to ask for better terms for themselves amid rising anti-Brussels sentiment.
But Paris has since grown more relaxed about a notification next year. A senior diplomat said such a timing would allow for a Brexit by 2019, when the European parliamentary elections take place.
"We wanted clarification, and we got it. Mrs May was very clear that Brexit meant Brexit," the diplomat said.
Mr Hollande, however, made clear that he would stand firm on the EU fundamental principle of free movement of people if the UK wanted full access to the single market.
Less than 10 months before presidential elections, the deeply unpopular French president is keen to show that leaving the EU has "consequences." He has sought to point to the UK's economic and political troubles in the wake of the vote to silence the French far-right National Front party. Marine Le Pen, the FN leader, who is predicted to qualify for the second round of the presidential run-off next year, has seized on the Brexit vote to demand a similar referendum on France's membership of the EU.
"It can serve as a lesson for those who seek the end of Europe," Mr Hollande said on June 29 in Brussels. "Is it good to be outside? We can now see all the advantages of being inside."
British diplomats admit that serious Brexit negotiations will not start until after the German general election in the autumn of 2017, although preliminary work could begin earlier.
Notebook page 10


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (78%); FR France; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               409 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hollande agrees on special status for Border; Taoiseach and French leader want Brexit talks to begin 'as soon as possible'

BYLINE: Pat Leahy, Suzanne Lynch

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 613 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  In a significant boost to Ireland's efforts to deal with the fallout from the British vote to leave the EU, French president François Hollande yesterday agreed that the peace process and the Common Travel Area should have a special status in future negotiations between the EU and the UK.
The Irish Times understands Taoiseach Enda Kenny will travel to London next week to meet the new British prime minister, Theresa May. He will again stress the need to protect the peace process through preserving the open border between North and South.
In talks with Mr Kenny at Government Buildings yesterday, Mr Hollande repeatedly expressed impatience with the British delay in leaving the EU, but struck a note regarded as helpful by senior Irish officials, in recognising the special position of Ireland.
Found a place
 "I do recognise that there is a special situation in Ireland," Mr Hollande said. "It's a special situation that has to be found a place in the negotiations."  
He added: "The relations that exist between Ireland, Northern Ireland the UK, that has to be negotiated under the discussions that will be undertaken once the notification for withdrawal has been made."
The official communique issued by the two leaders noted that the British should trigger the article 50 process to leave the EU "as soon as possible".
This is a noticeable change of emphasis from the Taoiseach, who warned as recently as Monday about attempts to isolate the British and push them into a "harsh exit deal".
Officials denied that there was any contradiction between the two statements, but accepted there was a difference in emphasis.
Privately, Government sources point out Ireland is seeking to maintain a delicate balance between the UK and EU positions.
"When we say 'as soon as possible', it doesn't necessarily mean the same as when the French say it," said one senior official.
Emphasising the Government's priority to protect the gains of the peace process, Mr Kenny said he would not accept the imposition of a "hard" EU border on the island.
"We do not favour a hard border, obviously," he said. "We do not wish to see a European border from Dundalk to Derry. That would not be acceptable." 
The Common Travel Area, he said, existed long before the EU was formed. "We believe we can and we will be able to preserve the Common Travel Area," the Taoiseach said.
Both leaders expressed the view that the UK should activate article 50, with Mr Hollande stressing in his remarks to journalists at a press conference that "this thing shouldn't drag on".
"If you want to know France's position, the sooner these negotiations are open the better. And the shorter they are, even better," the president said, through an interpreter.
Cutting short his intended visit to Dublin, Mr Hollande returned to Paris, after calling on President Michael D Higgins, for a meeting with Mrs May.
As the fallout from Brexit continues, the focus in Brussels is beginning to turn to the budgetary implications. 
Higher contributions 
As the second-biggest contributor to the EU budget after Germany, Britain's net contribution last year was about EUR 10 billion. Its departure will leave a financial hole, which may have to be filled by higher national contributions from the remaining 27 member states.  
Alternatively, the EU may decide to reduce the size of the EU budget, a development that would have a knock-on impact on high-expenditure EU areas such as the Common Agricultural Policy, from which Ireland benefits greatly.
EU officials confirmed that a final decision on Ireland's budget contribution will not be made until October, when Ireland's official figures are confirmed by Eurostat, the EU's statistical agency.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               410 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Holyrood doesn't have veto over Brexit, says top lawyer

BYLINE: Jeremy Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's leading law officer has said that Holyrood does not have a veto over Brexit, adding that Scotland will be taken out of the EU with the rest of the country.
Jeremy Wright, the attorney-general, said that all the UK's devolved administrations should take part in developing the country's approach to the Brexit negotiations.
Theresa May has pledged to listen to Nicola Sturgeon's options to keep Scotland in the EU but she has described some of the ideas being put forward as fanciful.
Speaking in the Commons, Martyn Day, the SNP MP, said: "The prime minister has stated that Brexit means Brexit, and the first minister of Scotland has stated that, for us, remain means remain. Do you agree that the Scottish people have spoken and therefore their sovereignty should be respected?" Mr Wright said: "The people of the United Kingdom have spoken and their sovereignty must be respected.
"The decision as to whether to leave the EU is a decision that the people of the UK have made and we will respect their decision."
He added: "That does not mean that any of the parts of the United Kingdom have a veto over this process and so consultation, most certainly, but veto, I'm afraid not."
David Nuttall, the Conservative MP, voiced concerns over the approach of the SNP, telling Mr Wright: "I'm quite happy with the government consulting with the devolved administrations.
"But what concerns me is that we don't finish up being held to ransom by the Scottish nationalists.
"Can you please reassure me and my constituents who voted overwhelmingly to leave the European Union that their wishes will not be frustrated by the Scottish National Party?"
Graphic
Jeremy Wright said the Brexit vote would be respected


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               411 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 7:59 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Jitters in London luxury flat market as investors sell for 'bargain' prices; Apartments bought off-plan offered for sale at less than price originally agreed with developers as data suggests Brexit vote could see housing sales slump

BYLINE: Hilary Osborne

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 1105 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The first real signs of distress in the market for luxury London apartments are starting to emerge, as investors who agreed to buy homes off-plan are starting to sell them on for less than they agreed to pay for them.
Property websites are now advertising many unfinished flats being offered for sale by the buyers who originally agreed deals with the developers. 
Estate agents and developers are generally coy about how much sellers were expecting to pay on completion, but some listings reveal that people are selling at or below the original purchase price, hoping the "bargain" price might pull in a new buyer. 
This week, estate agent LondonDom.com was advertising several properties in central London for less than the original price charged by the developer. These included a three-bedroom apartment in the Battersea Riverlight development being marketed at a guide price of £1,890,000. The listing for the flat, which will not be ready to move into until 2017, described the sale as a "Hot EXCLUSIVE deal - now asking less than the original purchase price from the developer in 2013." The listing has now been changed to describe it as "well priced".
Another "sub-penthouse" apartment in the Riverlight development, which is part of the vast Nine Elms development area that has sprung up on the south bank of the Thames, is ready to move into and is being marketed at £1.1m - £75,000 less than the original sale price. The agent's description read: "Urgent sale - asking now LOWER that the original purchase price of 2013, which was £1,175,000. Due completion - NOW."
George Shishkovsky, managing director of LondonDom, insisted the sales were not a result of the UK's Brexit vote or a fall in confidence in the market. "It's all about people's circumstances," he said. "Usually people buying off-plan do so two or three years before completion and in that time circumstances can change."
The reductions mean sellers will need to make up the difference between the price they get and that they have agreed with the developer. Shishkovsky also pointed out that the falling pound meant that overseas investors selling for less than they had agreed to pay were not necessarily making a loss. "If someone bought for £1m and is now selling for £980,000 that £20,000 will be easily absorbed by the exchange rate when they convert it back." But the lower prices do demonstrate that the era of soaring prices seems to have come to an end.
Henry Pryor, who buys homes in London for wealthy clients, said he believed that the top end of the market had peaked and that currency gains wouldn't make up for the fact that many flats had simply been overpriced: "Sterling-based property may be 10% cheaper for foreign buyers but much of it was 30% overpriced." He added: "Expect to see more of this as the post-Brexit [vote] reality bites."
Elsewhere in London, a flat in the super-luxe One Blackfriars development is being advertised for "less than the developer's price", and the agent selling it said that its £2.65m price tag was less than the original buyer had paid. He also cited personal circumstances as the reason for the sale. 
Reports suggest there has been a sharp slowdown in the number of sales in London's new-build market. According to research by consultancy firm Molior London, developers sold 4,600 new-build homes in the April to June period including off-plan sales, a 23% fall from the figure of just under 6,000 in the first quarter of the year. 
Faisal Durrani, head of research at property firm Cluttons, said that some development projects are now likely to be abandoned. He had expected around 60,000 new properties to complete between 2016 and the end of 2018, but now says: "It's unlikely that this will materialise, especially if the projects are yet to come out of the ground." 
Durrani said the prime central London market had been slowing for more than a year, but had been "amplified" by the referendum result. "We are at the stage where a slight correction was inevitable and may actually be positive for the market. It will help with affordability issues and may in fact help with the long stalled natural recycling times of property on the market, resulting in a more regular level of transactions," he said.
"Data from Molior shows that the total number of new build transactions in the first half of this year is at the highest level in seven years, with the exception of 2015; the total number of new build transactions in the second quarter was however at the lowest quarterly level in three years." 
The French bank Société Générale said last week that prices in London's most expensive boroughs could slump by as much as 50% in the wake of the vote for Brexit. 
Other agents are also listing properties in the Battersea Nine Elms area at their original off-plan sales prices. In the Capital Building in Embassy Gardens - near the new US embassy building - a ninth-floor apartment is on the market for just over £2m, with the listings stating that it is the original purchase price from 2012. Meanwhile a one-bedroom apartment over at One Tower Bridge, due to complete in September, is listed at £980,000, "below the original price of 2014", while a two-bedder in Westminster will make its original buyer no profit if it sells for the asking price of just over £2m.
Jonathan Hopper, of property buying agents Garrington, said new-build flats were likely to "suffer disproportionately" from market falls. "A lot of investors buying in London were doing so for capital appreciation rather than yield, and with capital appreciation under the spotlight they are choosing not to buy," he said. "Domestic demand has come to a shuddering halt and that void has not yet been filled by international buyers." Hopper said the stamp duty changes had offset the fall in the pound and meant that London did not look as cheap to foreign buyers as during the financial crisis in 2009.
He said discounts had started ahead of the Brexit vote. "We bought [at a discount] for a couple of clients in the six months before Brexit," he said. "The sellers were international buyers who had basically got it wrong - they thought that London was always going to keep going up and then they realised that wasn't the case."
 Hopper said some developers were discounting in a bid to finish on sites that were already half-sold. "They have already paid for the development and it's now a matter of how much profit they are going to make," he said. Hopper added that buyers should beware of a "concentration of risk. If there is a large development with a multiple units they could be vulnerable to a fairly significant realignment of pricing".


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               412 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Land Securities forecasts subdued demand from business tenants post-Brexit; Property

BYLINE: Judith Evans

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 410 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Land Securities, the UK's largest listed property company, has warned of "subdued" demand from business tenants in the wake of the Brexit vote.
"We expect business uncertainty to persist until there is more clarity on both the timing and terms of the UK's exit from the EU," said Rob Noel , chief executive of the £8.7bn group.
"This process may take some time. Demand from occupiers is likely to be subdued until confidence returns and this may have an impact on rental values."
Mr Noel's warning echoed that of British Land, Land Securities' biggest rival, which said this week: "We do expect some occupiers and investors to take a more cautious approach."
However, ahead of Land Securities' annual meeting yesterday, Mr Noel insisted the group's "very low leverage, high levels of occupancy and long lease terms" meant it was well-positioned.
He also said the company proposed to increase its full-year dividend by 9.9 per cent compared with a year earlier.
Shares in both Land Securities and British Land have fallen since the EU referendum on June 23, although they have recovered to make up some of their steep initial falls. Land Securities' shares have shed 8.6 per cent of their value and British Land's 14.6 per cent.
Land Securities appears to have been hit less hard thanks to its conservative positioning in the run-up to the EU vote . Its property loan-to-value ratio is relatively low: it stood at 22 per cent at the time of the referendum compared with 32 per cent for British Land. Land Securities has also completed most of its planned developments for this cycle.
"We admire the extent to which management has de-risked the portfolio through this cycle and believe the business is better placed than peer British Land," said David Brockton, analyst at Liberum, yesterday. "Land Securities is ready for a correction: they've been preparing for it for six years."
However, the group has a large London office portfolio - including a 50 per cent share in the "Walkie Talkie" skyscraper, the new "Zigzag" building in Victoria and a major Paddington development - all of which could add to risks if occupier demand in the city weakens, analysts said.
Capital values for property assets have risen 45 per cent since 2009, but are now widely expected to drop this year. Analysts at UBS Wealth Management expect a 5 to 10 per cent fall, while those at Lambert Smith Hampton, a commercial property agency, said this week they expected an 11 per cent drop in values.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               413 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: More bad news on EU budget bills; EU states, including Ireland, will have to pick up the tab in the wake of Brexit

BYLINE: Suzanne Lynch

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 483 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The confirmation that Ireland is to pay an extra EUR 280 million in EU budget contributions next year may be unpalatable news, but it is unlikely to be avoidable. 
EU member states signed off on the 2017 budget this week, but it now goes to the European Parliament for approval. A final agreement will be reached in October when the figures are confirmed by Eurostat. Ireland's final contribution will depend on GNI re-evaluations in other member states, leaving open the possibility that Ireland could face a lower - or higher - payment.
The decision about how much money the EU should spend is made every seven years when the EU budgetary cycle known as the MFF (multiannual financial framework) is agreed. Within the broad MFF framework, specific targets for each year are worked out annually by the commission and national contributions revised when the economic data for each year becomes available. 
Rules
 The nasty surprise that confronted Ireland this week was experienced by Britain in 2014 - when Britain had to pay an extra £1.7 billion into the budget, due to a one-off revaluation by Britain's Office of the National Statistics (ONS) of the size of the charity and NGO sector.  
As with last week's controversy over the CSO's figures, there were accusations that the ONS had played "too safely" by the rules. Like the UK chancellery in 2014, the Department of Finance in Dublin knew extra contributions were coming, but underestimated how big the extra contributions would be. 
Net contributor
 There appears to be little chance of Ireland receiving special treatment, given the huge financial contributions the country has received from Brussels. Even though Ireland has moved from being a net recipient to a net contributor, it still benefits from EU funding, through the Common Agricultural Policy (Cap), research funding, cohesion funds and programmes for the North.  
And while the public may be smarting from the news about the extra EUR 280 million, more bad news is on the way. 
Brexit opens up enormous problems for the EU budget and is likely to lead to bigger contributions from member states, including Ireland. 
While the Leave campaign's claim that £350 million goes to Brussels each week may have been unfounded, Britain still contributes a staggering £9 billion a year.
As the second-largest contributor, Britain's exit will generate a financial hole that will have to be filled. Countries will face the choice of increasing national contributions to meet the shortfall or accepting a smaller EU budget, with knock-on effects to EU spending on agriculture and research. 
Meanwhile, Ireland is likely to get little sympathy from fellow EU members about its extra budget obligations, given the antagonism towards Ireland's corporate tax regime.
Some may even delight in the irony that it is Ireland's high-dependence on multinational activity that is driving its higher budget costs. 


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BELGIUM (88%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               414 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 6:20 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Multidimensional, Brexit talks could lead to UK out but in limbo; Sequence of negotiations with the EU is not the only issue that needs to be clarified before article 50 is triggered

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 1253 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: UK officials have been trying to reach an outline agreement with European leaders on the sequence of Brexit talks, including a discussion on whether the terms of Britain leaving the EU can be negotiated at the same time as talks about the future trade relationship.
Theresa May and her Brexit departments in Whitehall do not want to concede any ground on triggering article 50, the clause that starts the two-year negotiating process, until this can be clarified. The sequence question is an essential to the opening phase in the tactical battle, with the UK being in a weaker position if the negotiations are rigidly organised. 
 Related:  Scotland, Wales and N Ireland could demand vote on Brexit terms
There is a danger that the UK would leave the EU only to find itself in a legal limbo in which the status of critical trade, security and environmental laws have not been clarified.
That applies not just to access to the EU single market, but a variety of other critical functions, ranging from the European arrest warrant to data sharing and climate change laws.
Under the article 50 procedure, member states must first negotiate the terms of their departure before negotiating a future deal with the EU. 
 "Technically, the terms of a future relationship agreement between the EU and the UK as a third country can only be negotiated once the UK has become that third country, and left the EU," said Michel Petite, the former director general of legal services at the European commission. 
Because trade is an exclusive EU competence, the UK could not formally negotiate bilateral trade deals until it has left the EU, he said.
Mark Sedwill, permanent secretary to the Home Office and a former senior diplomat, expressed the British hope that the EU would not demand such rigid sequencing. 
                     Addressing the Institute for Government  this week, he argued there were many informal ways for the different phases of the talks to take place: "Talks about talks, agreements in principle, things that are initialled before they are signed; all this kind of thing is the meat and drink of of international negotiations. With some ingenuity and some good will, it should be possible to do all of these thing in parallel in a way that remains clearly lawful, but meets the political objective."
But the scale of the potential uncertainty has been posed by Sir Andrew Cahn, a former British diplomat in Europe who spent five years in charge of the government department UK Trade & Investment. "There is a huge complication about sequencing events so there is not a legal vacuum. Such a legal hiatus would be unbearable from a business point of view. It is going to be enormously difficult," Cahn said.
Sedwill acknowledged that article 50 puts the UK at a negotiating disadvantage, likening it to a prenuptial agreement designed to discourage any member state from leaving the EU.
Sedwill, who is likely to be one of the critical figures in the Brexit talks, admitted that all sides would to some extent be making up the negotiating procedure as they went along. But he added that the detailed wording of article 50 gives the UK some scope so long as there was political will to reach an agreement.
But he said there would be consequences for the UK if it left the EU and found itself in legal limbo. He warned there would be an enormous amount of disruption unless there was legal continuity from the moment of UK exit.
For example, there could be complications for outstanding EU arrests warrants if a legal framework is not in place. "It is quite clear if you talk to judges there has to be complete legal continuity whatever arrangements were in place," he said. "Otherwise, and this is true of a whole range of other activities, you create legal uncertainty and there could just be an enormous amount of disruption. In practice, we are going to have to be have a pretty clear view of where we are going to move to immediately afterwards."
He said that if the UK did not have a detailed legal framework of "the day after" leaving, the British authorities would not know the legal basis on which to act on a range of issues from borders to environmental regulation.
In probably the most significant remarks to come out of May's visits to Berlin and Paris this week, Angela Merkel, seemed to endorse the idea of parallel talks on the terms of divorce and the future relationship.
"I think it is in all our interests if Great Britain applies for this exit with a very well-defined negotiating position and with the clear possibility to say, how do we envision our future relationship to the EU," the German chancellor said. "These must be parallel processes because you cannot cut ties first and then figure out in another long negotiation process which relationship one enters."
This is also the advice the US has been giving the UK.
Article 50 could give Merkel some legal basis to support talks on exit and trade happening simultaneously as it says the exit terms should be negotiated with "the framework" of the future relationship being kept in mind.
The need to agree simultaneously the terms of the new relationship, as well as the terms of the exit, could prolong the talks well beyond the stipulated two-year timetable, or require the UK to find an interim staging post relationship such as Norway's relationship with the EU.
Cahn pointed out that the UK could not just leave the EU and become a member of the World Trade Organisation the next day. The terms of UK re-entry into WTO would have to be negotiated, possibly taking years.
He posed the question: what would happen if article 50 were invoked, no agreement was reached after two years and the UK was forced to leave the EU? "What laws are in place? What duties to customs officers apply? It is really so confusing that it is unthinkable that it would happen, but then over the last few weeks a number of unthinkable things have happened," he said.
Sequencing is not the only issue to be agreed in the preliminary talks.
There will also have to be discussion on how the EU will be represented in the UK - whether by the more hardline European commission or iby the heads of state - and on the UK remaining subject to EU law- including the payment of fees during the negotiating process. An early understanding of how any deal will be ratified by the EU is also needed, and that in turn may be determined by the legal nature of the deal, including how much it extends beyond the issue of trade.
With ministers still discussing internally what kind of Brexit they want, Sedwill said the essential issue to be resolved remained the balance between the conflicting objectives of access to the single market and restrictions on the free movement of people.
But Sedwill stressed that the referendum outcome was crystal clear. "There will have to be significant changes to free movement in whatever arrangement we reach, so the question then becomes how much access to the single market our European partners are going to give," he said.
It is going to be a tortuous business, and many of the best cards lie in the hands of the EU.
British officials are optimistic that it would not be in the interests of big European economies and for counties that care about issues such as climate change, security, governance of the sea or international law to end up with "some kind of fractious divorce between the UK and the EU". But in these opening moves of what is a multidimensional chess game, it is clear Britain is placing great faith in locating a well of goodwill in Europe.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); WALES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               415 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: No action on corporate tax not an option; While Brexit lends extra impetus, there are many reasons for Ireland to protect its low corporate tax rate

BYLINE: Pádraig Cronin

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 917 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Some commentators have emphasised the certainty of the 12.5 per cent tax rate as the key part of "Brand Ireland" and the importance of not changing anything with regards to it.
In navigating Brexit, we are advising clients to effectively plan and "future proof" business for the ultimate exit scenario and the disruptions which result. This will impact such things as their strategy/ operating model, supply chain and talent agenda.
Ireland Inc needs to take the same approach from a tax-policy perspective. Sitting on our hands while the world moves around us is not a prudent strategy. This is not a time for brand arrogance (anyone remember Kodak moments in a pre-digital time?).
Obviously tax is only one element of the offering. For example, what response do we give to the prospective expat with the following question?
"Hi, we are moving to Dublin and looking for an area to live in, that has good public primary schools and facilities for our young children, as well as transport to the centre of Dublin. Looking for a reasonably-priced two-three bedroom house with a yard or some type of outside area."
The answer might well be: "It's trickier than you might expect."
The challenges Ireland faces are multiple and include:
nThe continuing trend of reducing headline corporate tax rates in the UK and generally across Europe. These countries also have bigger local consumer markets than Ireland, resulting in a "pull factor" to those locations. 
nThe increased risk of a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCB) becoming a reality in an EU without the UK. If implemented, this would result in a greater share of business profit being allocated to "destination countries" where the customers and manufacturing plants are located - the biggest of whom are Germany and France. France clearly has a strategy to become a stronger leader within the EU, and globally, arising from Brexit.
nThe EU directive on taxation which will impact on many areas but particularly on the ownership of intellectual property (IP). It will significantly increase the tax cost of moving same between countries from 2020. This may lead to the growth in non-EU hubs for the ownership of IP exploited on a global basis.
nThe tension between Ireland becoming part of Schengen (free movement of non-EU citizens based on a common visa policy) to facilitate the State becoming a "go to" hub within the EU versus the continuing closer relationship with the UK.
nCustoms duties/tariffs impacting on supply chain/oper- ating model. 
 We are not London, Frankfurt or Paris. However, we need to continue to aspire to become "the best small country in the world" regardless of what happens to the UK or indeed to the EU in general.
 Ireland made a bold move 20 years ago (in 1996) to move to a 12.5 per cent tax rate on a graduated basis by 2003. We have reaped significant benefit from that visionary move. As 2023 will soon be upon us, we now need to be similarly bold and innovative in refining our offering. A key danger is that the UK becomes the "gateway" to Europe, analogous to Singapore - the gateway to Asia.
 In the context of our fiscal space, there is a limited amount that can be done this year but we have significant ability to commit to what our regime will evolve to over a period of time. 
Personal tax 
A lot has been written about our personal tax regime. For many employees in the foreign direct investment  
sector, it is not a personal factor because they are tax equalised, with the employer guaranteeing their net income. It then becomes an employer cost which forms part of the overall location decision.
We could make a clear decision any fixed entitlement is liable to income tax based on the existing regime while any element of reward that carries real risk, and predicated on business growth, is taxed at a much lower rate, eg 20-30 per cent. This could apply to cash bonuses/share options linked to achieving real growth, and capped by reference to a percentage of base salary. 
It remains the case that the Irish entrepreneur is overtaxed and underappreciated. Only very tentative steps (in fairness because of the fiscal discipline required) have been taken to date. We need to move by 2020 to deliver a 10 per cent capital gains tax rate on gains generated by entrepreneurs to match the UK.
Corporate tax 
When Ireland announced its 12.5 per cent tax rate the UK rate was 31 per cent. They have committed to reduce it to 17 per cent and it may go to 15 per cent or lower. The Netherlands rate at that time was 35 per cent, and is now 25 per cent, and may be 20 per cent or lower by 2020.  
Committing to move to a lower corporate tax rate - perhaps even 5 per cent - on a phased basis by 2023 would send a powerful signal that Ireland will remain competitive and diminish the "pull" factor.
Such a move would fully align with the OECD's hierarchy of taxes which shows that lower corporate taxes are the most beneficial to growth prospects. Such a change would also position us as a competitive location for the ownership of IP.
Research commissioned by the Department of Finance has shown significant correlation between headline tax rate and location. We need to maintain our pro rata rate advantage over bigger economies. 
Finally, it would provide welcome relief/impetus to our indigenous sector and make it less likely that they would move activities to the UK market.
The time for action in a collaborative way between all stakeholders is now.
Pádraig Cronin is a tax partner and vice-chairman of Deloitte Ireland 


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (75%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               416 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 11:41 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: One month on, what is the impact of the Brexit vote so far?; It is a month since Britain voted to leave the European Union. What difference has it made to our economy and society so far?

BYLINE: Martin Belam

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 1321 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The EU referendum campaign was marked by a lot of claims about what would or wouldn't happen after the vote. The decision to leave the European Union will have far-reaching consequences for all areas of British society and the economy for years to come. Measuring what has happened will take time, due to the complexity of collecting and processing the data that will tell us what has happened. One month into the process of leaving, here's what we know and don't know about the effects.
                   What we know so far                   
                     FTSE 100                   
The FTSE 100 has shrugged off a brief post-referendum dip, and is currently at levels not seen since August 2015. But there is a caveat - many companies on the index generate their revenue overseas, and so the fall in sterling will boost their earnings power. Also, the index's recovery is much less impressive if you price it in dollars.
                     FTSE 250                   
The FTSE 250 includes a greater proportion of companies that derive more of their income domestically, and hasn't recovered as strongly as the FTSE 100 from losses the morning after the referendum. Nevertheless it is still at a comparable value to much of last year.
                     The value of the pound                   
The pound was worth $1.50 on 23 June. It is now trading at around $1.30 - down about 13%. Sterling hasn't been at levels this low against the dollar since the mid-80s.
The pound has also lost ground on the euro. On 23 June the pound was worth (EURO)1.30. It is now trading at around (EURO)1.19. 
Consequently Bloomberg reported on 8 July that the pound had overtaken the Argentinian Peso to become the world's worst performing currency in 2016. 
 So the pound is now the world's worst-performing major currency https://t.co/Ia6e90cMWppic.twitter.com/AB1xu9hAQI - Bloomberg (@business) July 8, 2016
However, a lower pound makes exports more competitive, and some analysts have suggested that the pound was over-valued prior to the referendum in any case.
                     The economy appears to be shrinking                   
Markit's PMI report today suggests that the UK economy is shrinking at a quarterly rate of 0.4%. It is our first good look at data based on July, and shows an economy shrinking at its fastest rate since 2009.
Services and manufacturing sectors have both suffered a big hit, reporting that output and new orders have fallen this month.
                     Interest rates                                        
Despite some expectations of a cut, and former chancellor George Osborne's claim that Brexit would drive up mortgage rates, in their first post-referendum decision, interest rates remained at 0.5%, where they have been since May 2009.
                     New cash for the NHS                   
There has not been a penny of new funding announced for the NHS after the referendum vote. With the actual day of Brexit still possibly years away, it will be some time before the NHS feels any possible benefits.
The website What Does Boris Owe? has calculated that the Vote Leave £350m campaign poster promise would so far be worth over £1.3bn additional investment in the NHS.
                     New trade deals                   
There have not been any new trade deals. Liam Fox has taken up a position as secretary of state for international trade and president of the board of trade in order to develop new international trade. Iceland, India, Australia, New Zealand and Ghana are among the nations reported to have expressed interest in a deal. Mexico has gone as far as writing a new draft trade deal.
                     Race hate crimes                   
                     Reported incidents of race hate crimes increased by 42% in the week before and the week after the vote to leave the EU. These figures need some context however. Race hate crimes on public transport were already reported to be rising, and Brexit may have simply made everyday racism more noticeable to the media and public.
                     The presidency of the council of the EU                   
Although Britain will almost certainly not have actually left the EU by July 2017 when it was due to assume presidency of the European council, it has been decided that the UK will not take up the role.
                   What we don't quite know yet                   
                     Inflation                   
The latest inflation results for June 2016 indicate there was a 0.5% rise in the Consumer Prices Index. This compares prices in June 2016 to prices in June 2015.
Next month's release, due on 16 August, will be the first to show us what inflation was like in a month fully after the referendum vote.
                     Housing and property                                        
The Bank of England's regional agents survey found that there had been a dip in housing market activity after 23 June, but that transactions had so far proved to be more resilient than some had expected.
UK average house prices had increased by 8.1% in the year to May 2016. It will be September before we get ONS data on average house price movements that start including the post-referendum period.
The Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors has recently reported a significant drop in confidence and investor demand affecting commercial property since the referendum.
                     Unemployment                   
The most recently published unemployment figures show there were 31.7 million people in work, and 1.65 million people unemployed. However these figures are based on comparing the three months to February 2016 and March to May 2016.
November will be the first time we see unemployment figures fully calculated post-referendum, comparing July, August and September 2016 with the months prior to the vote.
                   What we won't know for some time to come                   
                     Will there officially be a Brexit recession?                   
The first estimate of Q3 GDP figures which will cover July-September, will not be available until late October. That's when we will start to know if the leave vote has tipped the economy into recession. The Bank of England didn't think that had happened, which contrasts with Friday's Markit survey, but there were already signs the economy was slowing down before the referendum.
                     What is the impact on immigration?                   
In the year ending 2015, net migration stood at 333,000. The next figures are due in August 2016, but will only include migration statistics up to March 2016. The February 2017 ONS release will be the first to include migration changes post-referendum.
                     When will the UK actually leave the European Union?                   
The prime minister, Theresa May, appears to have indicated that the UK will not invoke article 50 this year. There is currently a case before the high court arguing over who has the actual power to invoke article 50.
                     What is the cost of performing Brexit?                   
The newly set up Department for Exiting the European Union won't come for free. In PMQs this week, Tim Farron asked about reports that the department would be hiring lawyers "at a cost of £5,000 per head per day".
                   What might happen next                   
The warnings of the economic consequences of the vote have been modified since it took place. It hasn't been the baptism of fire that many expected for the new chancellor. Nevertheless, there is still concern from global financial institutions about the impact of Brexit on the world economy.
                     The IMF predicts the UK economy will grow 1.7% in 2017, 0.9 percentage points lower than it estimated in April. But if the referendum campaign has taught us anything, it is that predictions about what would happen after a leave vote were tricky to get right.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               417 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Play to win in the property mMARKET; Carol Lewis outlines the Brexit buying strategies for families, first-timers and downsizers

BYLINE: Carol Lewis

SECTION: BRICKS AND MORTAR;NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1684 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: By post-referendum standards, this week wasn't exceptional. The French bank Société Général warned that house prices could fall by 30 per cent on the same day that professional services company PwC asserted that it "anticipates a marked slowdown in house-price growth, but no major crash".
The reality is that no one really knows what will happen; not until negotiations start to determine what sort of Brexit is on the table. And with MPs going on their holidays, the housing market is set to be quieter than usual this summer.
Nonetheless, those that need or want to move home are unlikely to put their lives on hold, although they are likely to take a harder line on value for money, according to Adam Challis, the head of residential research at property services company JLL. We look at the reality for homebuyers this summer.
First-time buyers Don't delay In the three months to the end of May, 80,500 first-time buyers stepped on to the UK property ladder, accounting for 24 per cent of the market. This is 13 per cent higher than last year and has much to do with low interest rates and government initiatives for the www.sector.No one is sure of the long-term impact of Britain's vote to Leave, but first-time buyers are unlikely to find that house prices suddenly drop or that mortgage rates decrease substantially. A report by Savills on the effects of the referendum on the housing market suggests there is a risk of tighter lending criteria and an increase in the cost of mortgages for those with smaller deposits. Both are likely to hit first-time buyers hardest.
However, Aaron Strutt, a mortgage broker at Trinity Financial, says that even if the Bank of England cuts interest rates by 0.25 per cent next month, lenders are unlikely to drop their rates by an equivalent amount - previously a 0.25 per cent cut in base rate might equate to a 0.1 per cent reduction in mortgage rates.
Use government initiatives In their first three years, Help to Buy equity loans have been used to purchase 81,014 new-build properties, with the majority (81 per cent) going to first-time buyers. The average price of a property bought in this way was £222,830 and it was most popular in Wiltshire, Wakefield, Bedfordshire, Co Durham and Leeds.
Help to Buy mortgage guarantee has been used for 78,749 house purchases, 79 per cent of which were by first-time buyers. The average price of a property bought through the scheme was £156,301. Unlike the equity scheme, available until 2020, the guarantee scheme closes at the end of this year.
The Help to Buy Isa has been used to fund 1,490 property purchases - many in northwest England, and Yorkshire and the Humber - since its launch in 2015. The average age of a first-time buyer using the scheme is 29, a year younger than the national average. And don't forget the Starter Homes Scheme.
Nick Whitten, the residential-research associate director at JLL, says: "By constraining price growth, a couple in their twenties and early thirties would be able to save to buy a maximum-priced starter home in less than half the number of years it would take to buy the average-priced first-time-buyer home."
Value for money Think about where and how you might get the best value for money.
Experts estimate that discounts of up to 10 per cent are possible on some new-build properties, with larger discounts available on those already overpriced. It costs money to move, so it is best to try to find something you can stay in for a while. According to Countrywide's latest report, Snakes and Ladders, people in London and the southeast of England, where 61 per cent start with a one or two-bedroom flat, move within four and a half years. Elsewhere, 70 per cent of first-time buyers purchase a home with three or more bedrooms and stay for longer. "North of Manchester, the first-time buyer stays in their house for seven years, compared to five in the south," say the report's authors.
Some first-time buyers in the south of the country are relocating to get better value for money - 26 per cent of those leaving London last year were aged between 20 and 29. "This age demographic is likely to be first-time buyers who want to get on to the property ladder, but aren't able to afford increased house prices and living costs. House prices are 17.5 times higher than average gross salaries in London, compared with 10.6 for the country as a whole," according to the authors of Humberts' 2016 Leaving London Report.
Mid-lifers Do the differential The speed and ease with which people trade up from a tiny flat to a large family house rests mainly on affordability. According to Countrywide, the estate agency, the price gap between a flat and a terraced house varies substantially, depending on where you live - for example, it is a difference of £158,000 in St Albans and £15,000 in Hull. One way to capitalise on the differential is to move from an area of high cost to one where property is cheaper.
Research for Humberts reveals that more than 280,000 people left London in 2015, 10,000 more than in the previous year. Birmingham, where average house prices are less than half those in London, tops the list of most popular destinations, along with commuter spots such as Brighton, Thurrock, Reigate, Sevenoaks, Canterbury, Welwyn and Hatfield.
Lucian Cook, the director of residential research at Savills, says: "As the London market slows there will be less risk of missing out on price growth in the capital, a fear that has previously deterred people from making the leap. However, they will have to be realistic about their price expectations when selling their London home in order to make the move."
Compromise This is the point in the housing journey at which people linger longest; when children are schooled and mortgages repaid. Alex Newall, the managing director of the estate agency Hanover Private Office, says: "The considerations for buyers grow in complexity as they get older, before easing when downsizing. The hardest moves are for the second and third-time movers with a family - finances are stretched and everybody has a say, or at least a consideration. The tick boxes get increasingly complex as a family grows and there tends to be less choice of suitable property."
Compromise is needed, with location taking priority. People either opt for houses that need some restoration or even rent, to get what they want. Richard Bernstone, the director at agency Aston Chase, says: "The 'second and third-steppers' move always proves more challenging because prices rise steeply for larger accommodation and generally buyers wish to purchase within close proximity of specific schools. This move will often prioritise space over condition, with a view that if they can purchase a well-maintained family home in the location they want and within their budget, the internal improvements and decoration can follow."
Charles Curran, the principal at the agency Maskells, says: "With the cost of property and the transactions costs, people tend to buy later in life than they used to and stay in their property longer, which means that instead of moving from step one to two they often wait and potentially rent so as to be able to move to step three - the large family house."
Plan for rising costs Fewer home-movers are mortgaged than in the past. Cook says: "In the three months to the end of May, cash buyers accounted for 37 per cent of the market, compared with 33 per cent in the same period in 2015 and only 21 per cent in 2006." Nonetheless, 27 per cent of those who moved home between March and May had a mortgage. The rest were first-time buyers and investors.
Whitten says: "For the first time since they have been homeowners, some of the people in this age group will have to brace themselves for an increase in their housing costs, with interest rates inevitably set to rise in the next five to ten years. "Any rise in mortgage costs will ultimately be offset by a rise in property values, with many, particularly in the southeast and London, seeing the value of their home earning them more than their jobs."
Downsizers Cash v choice Savills estimates that about 90,000 households downsize each year, unlocking about £14.5 billion in equity, but downsizers are cash rich and choice poor. According to the annual Homeowner Survey conducted by YouGov for the HomeOwners Alliance and BLP Insurance, 19 per cent of homeowners aged 55 and older say they have considered moving but have not done so because of a lack of suitable housing - the equivalent of more than two million homeowners.
Whitten says: "The UK has a rapidly ageing population and over the next 25 years the number of over-65s will rise from 11 million to 18 million, accounting for a quarter of the country's population. Surprisingly, there are precious few housing options for people as they get older. The property industry has been slow to adapt to this demographic shift in the UK."
Trend towards town Countrywide's report says that downsizers move out of cities, often to the coast or countryside, but there are signs that this exodus is slowing. The number of people aged over 65 moving to London rose by 8 per cent between 2012 and 2015. And York, Plymouth, Wigan and Rugby became net importers, rather than exporters, of pensioners.
Bernstone says: "Ironically, buyers at this stage in their lives tend to go 'full circle', choosing smaller lateral living, which is easy to maintain and has security, enabling them to 'lock up and go' should they wish to travel. Private gardens are less important and a move closer to central London is attractive, allowing them to embrace car-free living with the West End on their doorstep."
Tim Ash, an associate at Strutt & Parker's Chichester office, adds: "A possible mistake might be downsizing a step too far and too early. You don't have to cut ties to the family home as soon as the kids have gone to uni, or move to the deepest countryside.
"Relocating to geographically sensible locations is the most important consideration."
'First-time buyers are unlikely to find that house prices suddenly drop or that mortgage rates decrease substantially'
Graphic
A four-bedroom former chapel in Framlingham, Suffolk, has been renovated and is on sale for £650,000 with Strutt & ParkerThis seven-bedroom house in Upper Froyle, near Alton, Hampshire, is on sale for £2.35 million through Savills. Left: a family period house in Little Venice, London W9, has seven bedroomsand is on the market for £7.35 million with Aston ChaseA listed Cotswolds house in the village of Avening, near Tetbury, Gloucestershire, has eight bedrooms (Knight Frank, £1.875 million)


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LEEDS, ENGLAND (79%); WAKEFIELD, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               418 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 11:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Poles on Brexit: 'I don't think many will stay. Life in Britain is tough'; Polish people in Britain and back home tell of uncertainty amid reports of xenophobia and UK's refusal to offer any guarantees

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Warsaw

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Marcin Skierniewski has lived in London for four years, working as a builder to save enough to put some money down on a flat. That is no easy thing in the capital, but his goal was at least on the horizon when he took a holiday in Poland, with Britain yet to vote on its EU membership. While he was away, his adoptive home turned itself inside out.
Waiting at at Warsaw airport, he was preparing to return to Britain, uncertain what exactly that would entail. It was not the reports of anti-Polish xenophobia that unsettled him. "I'm absolutely not worried," he said. "I have plenty of British friends who will stand by me. I'm not afraid."
 It was the cloud of doubt around his life plans that fuelled his anxiety. "I'm worried how it might affect me. I don't know what happens about my idea of getting a flat now," said Skierniewski. 
 The uncertainty is understandable and deliberately created: the British government is refusing to guarantee the full residency rights of EU nationals who have established lives in the UK without a reciprocal deal for Britons living in other EU countries.
In Britain... social mobility is not great. State education is not great
  Paulina, museum worker    
Uncertainty will continue to dog the UK's nearly 3 million European residents for some time to come. More than 850,000 of those total are Polish, but many are reconsidering their options and not just because of Brexit uncertainty and the impact on the value of earning in pounds. 
Paulina, who requested her surname not be used, works at an art gallery in London. She said she thought the threat of xenophobic attacks had been exaggerated in the press. But she thought Britain's Polish population would begin to shrink.
 "Many of them are going to go back anyway," she said. "The Polish government has introduced a £100 child benefit scheme regardless of earnings to get people to stay... And life in Britain is tough. There is overpopulation. Train tickets are really expensive which makes it all much harder. Social mobility is not great. State education is not great. I don't think a lot of people will stay. They might decide to go elsewhere."
 The far-reaching implications of the UK vote do not just affect ordinary Europeans who happen to have made a home in Britain. 
A group of old school friends, all aged 32, were out for a drink in Warsaw's Poznanska street, under the tall silhouette of the city's defining monument, the communist-era Palace of Culture and Science. Their first reaction on being asked about Brexit was to shrug it off as someone else's problem, but on second thoughts it disturbed them.
 Krzysztof Paciorkowski, a vegetable trader, had seen the stories about anti-Polish incidents. "The Brits don't like us much it seems, which makes no sense. Poles work hard, they work professionally and pay taxes," he said. "I also think it was pretty strange when the Brits started asking Google what the EU is, the day after they voted in the referendum." 
 Pawel Kurach, an apple farmer with orchards 25 miles (40km) outside Warsaw, had two concerns. His brother's family had been in London for 10 years -he was worried about their future and what would happen regarding his brother's longstanding job as a restaurant manager. The second worry was contagion. 
 "What I worry about is whether Poland is going to be next," Kurach said. "I worry it's going to be like dominoes and the question is, where does it end?"
 Poland's rightwing nationalists are already in power in Warsaw. The Law and Justice party (PiS) has drawn expressions of concern from Brussels and Washington over the independence of the country's constitutional court. It has purged the state media of leftwingers and centrists, and has overseen the rise of anti-immigrant sentiment. 
 Related:  Brexit: a disaster decades in the making | Gary Younge
Many of the comments underneath recent online reports of anti-Polish incidents in the UK, observed that it was no more or less than what was happening in Poland. 
 The prime minister, Beata Szydlo, seized on the UK's vote to leave as a symptom of Europe's ills, and argued it justified a new European treaty that would repatriate powers from Brussels and therefore be more responsive to ordinary people.
 "Poland is active and wants to be active in the process of change which must come to the European Union, because Brexit shows first and foremost that Europeans no longer want a union of its form up to now," Szydlo said.
 The centrist and pro-European opposition has argued that British withdrawal increased the need for greater European solidarity and integration. Bogdan Klich, a former defence minister and now a leading opposition senator, said: "The UK vote will mean a visible shadow on Polish-British relations though it will not happen immediately but over a long period. 
"We are concerned in such a context about the future of the European Union. We are aware the EU will not play such an influential role on the international stage as it played before."


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); POLAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               419 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 11:39 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Post-Brexit economy may actually be worse than Markit's survey suggests; Business sentiment is tough to gauge and the latest report may not present the full effects of low business sentiment on the UK economy

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 461 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Surveys of business sentiment are sometimes wrong. There are times when they give off false signals, predicting recessions that never materialise. The first big snapshot of the UK economy in the weeks immediately after Brexit is not one of those.
As was only to be expected, there has been a heavy blow to confidence and activity in the weeks after the referendum on 23 June. Very few companies were expecting the UK to decide to leave the EU and even fewer had a contingency plan in place for such an eventuality.
In truth, the immediate hit to the economy is probably even more serious than suggested by the survey from IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply. That's because it excludes construction, where projects can be mothballed quickly. This sector looks especially vulnerable in the post-Brexit world.
Of the two sectors covered by the flash estimate, services have taken a bigger hit than manufacturing. Again, that's unsurprising. Manufacturers will see the impact of Brexit cushioned by the fall in the value of the pound, which makes exports cheaper. What's more, in the event that Britain cannot negotiate continued membership of the single market, EU tariffs on UK manufactured goods would be small.
 Related:  Britain's economy shrinking at fastest rate since 2009, says survey
For the service sector, however, it is a different story. It would be quite possible for the EU to impose quite tough barriers on UK service sector exports, and this is of deep concern, particularly to the City.
The abrupt and large fall in both orders and output reported by IHS Markit and the CIPS clearly makes a recession in the second half of 2016 a real risk. Similar results for August and September would suggest a 0.4% contraction in the economy in the third quarter. It only takes two successive quarters of contraction to constitute a technical recession.
There is a possibility, of course, that July will mark the depths of post-Brexit anxiety among business, and there have been a few positive signs. A new government has been formed that is taking its time about triggering the start of the UK's divorce proceedings from the EU. Consumers still seem to be spending in the shops.
But the Bank of England will be taking no chances. Members of Threadneedle Street's monetary policy committee wanted more evidence when they met earlier this month before sanctioning new measures to stimulate growth. Now they have it.
The Bank's approach has been to exude calm reassurance that it is in control of events. But it is going to take more than words to prevent the economy sliding into recession, and most MPC members seem to understand that. A big package of measures from the Bank on 4 August - including an interest-rate cut - now looks inevitable. 


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               420 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Post-Brexit tourism; Briefs

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 44 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: TOURISM Ireland has said it is "too early" to tell what the long-term implications of Brexit will be for Irish tourism.
The organisation held a post-Brexit briefing yesterday. Tourism Ireland also said overseas visits to Ireland in 2015 grew by 13.1pc to eight million.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (92%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               421 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Property group warns of Brexit uncertainty

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 90 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The country's biggest commercial property group has warned of subdued demand and a possible fall in rents as the UK extricates itself from the European Union.
Robert Noel, chief executive of Land Securities, told investors at its annual meeting: "We expect business uncertainty to persist until there is more clarity on both the timing and terms of the UK's exit."
The group, which has a £14.5 billion portfolio, £8.2 billion of which is in London and includes the Walkie Talkie building, insisted it was still well placed despite the uncertainty.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               422 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Rhetoric about united Ireland far too rushed; Opportunistic use of Brexit vote patterns will not make North's factions see eye to eye

BYLINE: Colum Kenny

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 731 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A wall is going up. Not coming down. This is not Berlin in 1989. The UK's vote to leave the EU has led to fears of a new barrier between Northern Ireland and the Republic. South of the Irish Border is not Mexico, but those who voted for Brexit want to close the backdoor to Britain for uncontrolled imports and immigrants. 
It's a time for serious political and economic engagement between the North and South. Yet the public reaction of some political leaders is fanciful. They have raised the possibility of a referendum in Northern Ireland on Irish unity. 
Hardly had votes been counted, showing that a majority in Northern Ireland wished to remain in the EU, than Sinn Féin's Martin McGuinness claimed it meant the "British government has forfeited any mandate to represent the economic or political interests of the people" in the North. "Any" mandate, Martin? Is there a unionist of "any" kind who agrees with you?
One expects no more of Sinn Féin. But for Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil also to raise the prospect of a Border poll is disturbing. Are they so fearful that Sinn Féin has stolen a march on them?
Unity myth
 There is not a snowball's chance in hell of most northerners, never mind most unionists, voting for Irish unity in the immediate future. Enda Kenny and Micheál Martin admitted as much this week. So why raise it?  
What might be achieved is closer pragmatic co-operation between North and South. That requires gentle diplomacy and skill, not triumphalism in the face of Northern Ireland's humiliation by Brexit.
One might have hoped for a more sober approach in Dublin. Instead, first came megaphone diplomacy as the Government proposed an ill-defined all-Ireland forum on the effects of Brexit. Forums, citizen assemblies and committees are no substitute for government.
The Taoiseach's proposal for a new forum was in return publicly slapped down by Northern Ireland First Minister Arlene Foster. Closer co-operation does not need such a body, and if it did then a premature decision by one side was not how to achieve it. 
By raising for unionists the spectre of a united Ireland at this sensitive time, nationalist leaders indulged themselves while achieving nothing. Here was a chance to bring the North and South closer but our leaders could not contain themselves and made real progress harder.
Some unionists, like millions of Conservative supporters in England, voted to stay in the EU. This does not mean that the idea of being part of the Republic now thrills them. For reasons why they might not jump with joy at that prospect, just open an Irish newspaper any day of the week. It will be a while yet before border guards have to shoot unionists trying to leap over any new Irish Border to freedom in the South.
Germany no equivalent 
 The Taoiseach reportedly said last week that Irish unification might be possible, How? "In the same way as East Germany was dealt with when the wall came down, was able to be absorbed into West Germany; and not to have a tortuous and long process applying for membership of the European Union."  
This was a triply odd statement. For one thing, Germany before 1990 was a country divided by an imposed dictatorship, and not two separate jurisdictions in which respective majorities had oppositional histories and identities. 
For another, the Taoiseach seems to equate the Republic of Ireland with West Germany, seeing it set to "absorb" Northern Ireland, and not vice versa. "Absorption" is a long way from parity of esteem. The Irish economy is a long way from Germany.
Kenny also envisages Northern Ireland perhaps wishing to go its own way in order to apply for EU membership. That will not happen, due to the size and nature of Northern Ireland, and especially due to the wishes of a majority of its people who want to remain part of the UK even if Scotland does not.
Rational case
 The Republic must put its own house in order to build a persuasive rational case for reunification, a case that must convince majorities on both sides of the Border that the reunification of Ireland is a good option for each.  
That great pragmatist Arthur Griffith, who knew well the challenges of bringing all Ireland down one road, once lamented that when it comes to the public "you can't move 'em with a cold thing like economics". But there is more chance of moving unionists with economics than with talk of all-Ireland forums or a Border poll.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               423 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Roche chief warns of Brexit impact on UK drug research; Pharmaceuticals

BYLINE: Ralph Atkins in Zürich

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 509 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Roche, the Swiss pharmaceuticals company, has warned that the UK risks losing its leading role in medical research after leaving the EU.
The group called for Britain to move quickly to replace European regulations with rules that give patients access to innovative treatments or else risk delays in developing crucial medicines.
The future of local drug regulation was "my biggest worry in the UK", said Severin Schwan , Roche chief executive.
The London-based European Medicines Agency, which supervises drugs used in the EU, is expected to relocate to another member state when Britain leaves the bloc .
Subsequent delays by the UK in authorising new drugs or excessive restrictions on their use in the National Health Service would hit research and development, Mr Schwan said.
His warning came as Roche reported a stronger-than-expected increase in earnings in the first half of the year, with sales boosted by demand for its oncology and immunology medicines.
Mr Schwan expected little direct impact from Brexit on Roche because the UK accounts for less than 3 per cent of sales. But he feared discussions about future UK regulatory arrangements failed to appreciate that research projects depended on a country allowing access to innovative medicines so that clinical trials could accurately compare treatments.
"That is my biggest fear with Brexit - that those silos of thinking get even more separated," he said. The UK has been "one of the leading countries in the world" in medical research, he added. "I would hope that the UK stays at the forefront as far as science is concerned."
In contrast, the Roche chief struck an upbeat tone on the future of the pharmaceuticals sector in the US. This week, Swiss rival Novartis warned about an increasingly tough price environment following November's election with Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump pledging to curb drug costs.
Mr Schwan said that Roche would be shielded from price pressures because of its focus on developing innovative cancer drugs. The debate over soaring drug costs had been triggered by smaller companies that "have misused the system and hiked prices of some generic products", he said.
He said he expected that the US would continue to reject excessive government intervention and to support innovative pharmaceutical companies, which were important drivers of economic growth and job creation. "It takes a lot to fundamentally change the system in the US, and I don't expect a fundamental change," Mr Schwan said.
Roche reported sales of SFr25bn ($25.3bn) in the six months to the end of June, an increase of 5 per cent at constant exchange rates compared with the same period a year earlier.
Newly launched medicines had shown "good sales performance", it said, including Tecentriq, its first cancer immunotherapy medicine.
Core earnings per share beat analysts' expectations, up 5 per cent to SFr7.74. For the full year, Roche reiterated its guidance of sales growth in low- to mid-single digits at constant exchange rates, with growth in core earnings per share outpacing sales growth.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); CH Switzerland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               424 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 4:05 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Scotland, Wales and N Ireland could demand vote on Brexit terms; Leaders of UK's devolved parliaments vow to work together to ensure nations are not 'done over' by Westminster

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 696 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The leaders of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have discussed the possibility of each of the devolved parliaments being given the right to vote on the terms of Brexit.
 During a "frank and robust" extraordinary summit of the British-Irish Council, leaders and ministers from the UK's celtic nations vowed they would not be "done over" by Westminster as part of Brexit. 
 Each made it clear they wanted direct involvement with the negotiations over the UK's exit from the European Union. 
 Related:  Brexit vote paves way for federal union to save UK, says all-party group
There were also discussions about the danger of Brexit leading to a new "hard" border being set up between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. 
 The meeting was called by the first minister of Wales, Carwyn Jones, who said it was crucial that the devolved administrations worked together to make sure they got the best Brexit deals. 
 Jones set the tone in a press briefing after the summit held at the Temple of Peace and Health in Cardiff. Asked if he was in a more difficult position because the majority of people of Wales voted in favour of Brexit - while Scotland and Northern Ireland voted to remain - he replied bluntly: "The people of Wales voted to leave, they didn't vote to be done over in any subsequent negotiations."
 Jones said that since the referendum, David Cameron and Theresa May had promised that the whole of the UK would be involved in the negotiations. "That [promise] has to be made real," he said. "We can't be consultees. We have to be very much part of that negotiation. My view is that any future deal should be ratified by all four parliaments within the UK."
Jones said he believed article 50 should be triggered before next summer.
 Echoing Jones's strong language, the Scottish first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said: "As long as I've got anything to do with it the people of Scotland will not be done over." Sturgeon described the summit as "frank and robust".
On Jones's stance that the deal should be ratified by all four parliaments, Sturgeon said: "I think it's a very legitimate suggestion." 
 Sturgeon added: "The question we will need an answer to is how the decision to trigger article 50 is taken and what is the role of all of us represented here in that decision. The prime minister in Edinburgh last week said she didn't want to trigger article 50 until the position had been reached that all parts of the UK were comfortable with." 
 Related:  Why did Wales shoot itself in the foot in this referendum? | Richard Wyn Jones
 Northern Ireland's first minister, Arlene Foster, said the UK government, which was represented at the summit by Northern Ireland secretary James Brokenshire, could not be in any doubt about the demands of the devolved administrations to be at the centre of negotiations.
"Everyone wants direct engagement with the government," she said. "We want to be directly involved in negotiations." 
 Also at the summit was the Irish taoiseach, Enda Kenny, who insisted there would be no hard border between the north and south. 
But the deputy Northern Ireland first minister, Martin McGuinness, said it was "very difficult" to see how the common travel area could survive. He said: "The reality is that EU nationals will have the right to travel to Dublin ... and get on the bus to travel to Belfast or Derry."
 Brokenshire said he did not want to see a "return to the borders of the past". On Brexit in general, he said the UK government was in "listening mode". 
 He said: "The prime minister has been very clear in saying that each of the administrations needs to be properly engaged. Today's meeting has provided a very helpful forum. 
"What we as the UK government are seeking to achieve which is to get the best possible outcome for all parts of the UK, a sense of listening very carefully, very clearly to proposals that are being made and also as we move forward as much as we can ensuring that there is that UK-wide approach to negotiations." 
 The British-Irish Council was established as part of the multi-party agreement reached in Belfast on 10 April 1998. Its membership also includes the Isle of Man, Guernsey and Jersey governments. 


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CARDIFF, WALES (54%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); WALES (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               425 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Swatch welcomes sales uptick after Brexit vote; Retail & consumer

BYLINE: Ralph Atkins in Zürich

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 300 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's vote to leave the EU has led to a surge in luxury watch sales in London, providing a welcome shot in the arm for Switzerland's Swatch Group, its chief executive has reported.
Its branded stores, such as Omega, Breguet and Blancpain, had enjoyed "fantastic results" in July, with foreign tourists taking advantage of the weaker pound , chief executive Nick Hayek said yesterday.
In the first three weeks of the month, sales at Omega stores had increased between 25 per cent and 132 per cent compared with a year earlier, he said.
Although sterling sales are worth less when converted back into Swiss francs, the buying splurge in the UK capital is a rare piece of good news for Switzerland's watch manufacturers, which are weathering a steep overall downturn in global export sales.
Watch exports in June were 16.1 per cent lower than a year ago, the Swiss industry federation reported yesterday. Worst hit were sales to Hong Kong - the sector's largest market - which were down almost 30 per cent.
The sales downturn led last week to a profit warning from Swatch , which confirmed yesterday that net sales fell 12.5 per cent to SFr3.7bn ($3.7bn) in constant currencies in the first half of 2016 compared with a year earlier. Operating profit was 54 per cent lower at SFr353m.
Mr Hayek denied Swiss watchmakers were in a crisis, however, saying sales falls were largely the result of shifts in tourism flows, especially among Chinese consumers. He said the falls in Hong Kong watch sales and corresponding rises in London showed "how quickly people react to exchange rates".
"That's the environment we're operating in. It is not a crisis, it is a slowdown in some areas, but not because the brands are unappealing or people don't want to have watches. It's just that people are travelling differently."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); HONG KONG (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); CH Switzerland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               426 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Terror, Brexit and strikes put easyJet in a spin over takings

BYLINE: Harry Wilson

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 468 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Strikes and terrorism were blamed by easyJet for a fall of more than 8 per cent in revenues per seat as the budget airline reported its results for the three months to the end of June.
The carrier said that while overall revenues were down by 2.6 per cent at £1.2 billion, the amount it made from each passenger dropped by 8.3 per cent year-on-year to £54.17 in the third quarter.
At the heart of easyJet's problems were a surge in strikes, particularly those of French air traffic controllers; and terror attacks, which made customers more wary about flying. In addition, the aftermath of the Brexit vote with a weaker pound has made travelling to Europe more expensive for Britons.
EasyJet said it had to cancel 1,221 flights in the three-month period, compared with 726 in the same quarter last year. There were 11 air traffic control strikes in June, many in France, over which more than 60 per cent of its aircraft must travel. Carolyn McCall, 54, easyJet chief executive, described the quarter as difficult and said that the tougher operating environment meant the company would have to focus strongly on controlling costs.
Costs per seat for easyJet fell 3.8 per cent, helped by a fall in fuel prices. However, the exceptional disruption suffered during the quarter offset these efforts and easyJet estimated the cost of cancellations and other events at about £20 million.
"The easyJet business model remains robust, with a strong cash position, solid balance sheet and a flexible fleet plan. The easyJet team is confident in its ability to navigate the period ahead and drive long-term advantage," Ms McCall said.
EasyJet said that it remained committed to a generous dividend policy and would be increasing its payout to shareholders to more than 50 per cent of post-tax income.
Despite this, the shares fell heavily on the London market and ended the trading session down 60p, or 5.3 per cent, at £10.67, valuing the company at £4.4 billion.
"While the company has a strong balance sheet, has increased its dividends and has been successful in attracting more business passengers, we see the shares as no better than a hold at present," Ian Forrest, an analyst at The Share Centre, said.
Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, said the results showed the company could be heading for a poor fourth quarter. "The whole airline industry is under pressure, as illustrated by Lufthansa's fresh profit warning and last month's downgraded earnings guidance from International Consolidated Airlines and easyJet itself," Mr Mould said.
EasyJet said it had put together its own Brexit team to speak to UK and EU officials and to ensure that the company maintained current flying rights for its 250-strong fleet.
The airline said it had a contingency plan in place that would guarantee access to European markets.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); FRANCE (77%); EUROPE (71%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               427 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday 6:27 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Turning back time on Brexit and Humpty; Remainers' despair | Humpty Dumpty | Prescient HMS names | UK for sale | Jeremy Corbyn's beard

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 319 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Which country does Martin Kettle ( May will have to decide soon which Brexit to take, 22 July) live in? In Bath, and among my friends elsewhere, the sense of despair - and of being robbed by cynical liars - is deeply felt. There may be a shrug of the shoulders by leavers, but there's massive indignant spirit among remainers. Don't cause a spark! Peter DavisBath, Somerset
· You say ( Corrections and clarifications, 19 July) that a historian making a comparison with the EU referendum was wrong to suggest Humpty Dumpty could be put together again. It may be that the historian in question saw a production that the Nomad Puppet Theatre has put out for over 40 years in Soho, Tooting and now St Ives, which does indeed put Humpty together again by turning back time! Perhaps we could use this device for the EU referendum? Fred KeysFarnham Royal, Buckinghamshire
· One can't help but marvel at the prognostic naming of HMS Ambush, involved in a "glancing" collision with a merchant vessel while submerged off the coast of Gibraltar ( Report, 20 July). Not so much for HMS Invincible, sold for scrap in 2010. Aidan BalfeManchester
· "UK is up for sale" ( Letters, 21 July)? At least that offers a choice of soundtrack: Genesis' Selling England by the Pound or Show of Hands' Is There Anything Left in England Not For Sale. Austen LynchGarstang, Lancashire
· Given that he is in his sixties, sporting a ZZ Top-style beard might not be the best image for Jeremy Corbyn ( Letters, 22 July). Agreed, he has sometimes been guilty of trimming in the past but his beard now demonstrates two very important qualities: resilience and sustainability. Keith FlettLondon
· I don't mind beard wax on my sandals, but I don't want it in my muesli. Martin Lovell-PankSturminster Newton, Dorset
                       · Join the debate - email                         guardian.letters@theguardian.com                                        


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BATH, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (87%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); GIBRALTAR (57%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               428 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 22, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: When you mess up, just blame it on Brexit; Every failing company or nation has an easy excuse. In reality, this is a great global opportunity

BYLINE: Ed Conway

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION; COLUMNS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 934 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Istubbed my toe as I walked across my bedroom the other evening. Normally such mishaps are doubly agonising because you realise that the only person you can blame is yourself. This time was different. My mind was frazzled, I was exhausted after weeks of non-stop work, and I was awake much later than I should have been. In other words, this time there was a culprit: Brexit.
That's far and away the best thing about Brexit. Whether you're a company, a country or a journalist, no matter how deep your problems you can probably find a way to blame them on the referendum result. Marks & Spencer's problems with non-food retail? Goldman Sachs's earnings? British Land's strife and the crisis in the commercial property market? Brexit, Brexit, Brexit.
The minute the votes were counted, finance ministers around the world realised that those disappointing tax receipts, plummeting growth numbers or imbalances in their economies had in fact been caused by voters in Sunderland and Kettering. Italy's finance minister was first out of the blocks a few hours after the result, blaming the referendum for the imminent decline in his country's public finances. Shortly afterwards his Japanese counterpart declared that the aftermath would worsen his country's outlook (little mention of the fact that it is already the world's most indebted). This week the International Monetary Fund said Brexit was the "spanner in the works" that meant almost every major economy in the world would grow a bit more slowly this year.
Brexit is Britain's great gift to the world: a giant pre-cooked excuse for absolutely everything. The French have an alibi if their economy falters; the Italians can blame the UK when their disastrously undercapitalised banking system goes under; the Germans can point the finger when Deutsche Bank loses its battle with financial gravity. And when the single currency finally implodes or the broader European project disintegrates, you can be sure that as the ship goes down, one curse will be audible above the gurgling: Brexit.
Little matter that the vast majority of these problems existed long before David Cameron cooked up the idea of an in-out vote. Britain's commercial property market already looked bubbly; the open-ended property investment funds that were frozen after the vote were silly products in the first place. As covered in this column recently, Europe's banking system has been brittle if not broken for even longer, and the euro looked ill-fated from the very beginning.
The chances still are that Brexit will trigger a UK slowdown but so far the recession the Bank of England warned about is hardly nailed on. Indeed, the day after the IMF's warning, the Bank revealed that its agents had detected little direct evidence of a Brexit-related slump. Nor is it at all clear, for the time being at least, that it is causing the contagion effect the IMF warned of. Despite some scary initial lurches in the currency markets, there has been no financial crisis, no repeat of 2008.
Those problems the world economy is facing have been baked into the system for some time.
Growth has been flaccid for years. Once upon a time, global gross domestic product growth of less than 3 per cent was considered a recession; even before June 23 the IMF was expecting growth of only a whisker above that level this year.
There are plenty of straightforward reasons: China's slowdown, Europe's stagnation, Brazil's woes, to take just three. There are also more complicated factors: productivity rates are falling pretty much everywhere, interest rates are below zero in many parts of the world and there is a distinct lack of www.demand.No one quite understands why, so far easier to blame it on the Brexit.
This weekend the world's leading finance ministers will meet in Chengdu ahead of the G20 summit this autumn. For all of the reasons above, the chances are Brexit will be the main item on the agenda. This is a shame. Yes, there are plenty of important considerations: what does this do for Europe and for the UK? Does it imply a widespread retrenchment from multilateralism? But in the grand scheme of things, Brexit is not the biggest problem confronting finance ministers.
If anything, it provides an opportunity. For years, G20 members have been paralysed in the face of the global slowdown. There are a few widely accepted solutions: spend more on infrastructure, tear down regulations or print more money. Most countries have shied away from them for domestic reasons. If Brexit provides the excuse to get on with it, so much the better.
Even before the vote, action was in the pipeline. According to IMF figures from the spring, this is the first year that fiscal policy will be eased, in other words spending increased and taxes cut, since 2010. Countries such as Japan, Canada and Britain have promised to spend even more. Though it is hard to make head nor tail of his fiscal plans, the sense one gets from Donald Trump is that as US president he too would end up spending a few more dollars. The odd one out is, as ever, Germany, but should the apparent sense of crisis continue, even Berlin may consider loosening policy.
This is no bad thing. While spending a little more won't solve every problem it might help kick-start some growth. So as he makes his first major international appearance in China this weekend, Philip Hammond should be prepared to eat an odd sort of humble pie. Go along with the lie that Brexit caused everyone's problems; Brexit may be their excuse for finally addressing them.
The recession that the  ;  ;  Bank warned about  ;  ;  hardly looks nailed on  ;


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ITALY (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               429 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit fears of market contagion look overdone; Britain's referendum has had a limited impact on global markets

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 591 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It is a month since the Leave result in the UK referendum on membership of the EU delivered a jolt to financial markets around the world. Yet since the initial movements, only some of the traces of the Brexit shock remain outside the UK. More than anything, those remnants of the initial impact serve as a reminder of the fragility of global growth. In the UK itself, the early data available suggest there is a clear risk of the real economy slowing sharply.
The fact that opinion polls, and even more so betting markets, pointed to a Remain victory evidently lulled investors into a false sense of security. The initial impact of the Leave result was dramatic. Equity prices around the world dropped as what appeared to be a "risk-off" flight to quality took hold. Bond yields also plunged: the yield on the benchmark 10-year German Bund, which had already dipped below zero for the first time days before the vote, dropped more firmly into negative territory.
Some even talked of replicating the shock delivered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 which caused the global financial system almost to freeze up completely and precipitated a worldwide crisis whose legacy still lives with us.
A month on, those fears of global contagion look heavily overdone. The main stock indices in the US and continental Europe have recovered - in the latter case despite record outflows from European equity funds. Emerging market assets , traditionally the victim of risk-off episodes, have proved remarkably stable. And while government bond yields have remained lower than before the poll, including US Treasuries and German Bunds, they have recovered to what looks like the continuation of a medium-term downward drift rather than a plunge.
The situation in the UK itself looks rather less sanguine. Equities first fell and then recovered, but sterling has dropped to a three-decade low against the dollar. Even more concerning, certainly for the average Briton, is initial evidence that a serious shock is hitting the real economy.
On Friday the purchasing managers' indices , which have proved a reasonable leading indicator of economic growth, plunged to their lowest level since 2009, suggesting a big hit to business confidence. Moreover, anecdotal evidence suggests that the housing market, traditionally a source of instability for the UK economy, has slowed sharply over the past month.
In this context, the Bank of England was right to signal that it would cut interest rates: indeed, it could have chosen to move this month instead of next. Waiting for hard data to confirm that the economy has slumped could take months, and there is little cost when inflation is so low in taking out an insurance policy against such an outcome.
Another welcome response was the new government's decision to abandon former chancellor George Osborne's peculiarly constructed fiscal surplus rule . A more flexible approach means it has more room to respond to a slowdown with tax cuts or spending increases, and with bond yields so low there is little risk that increased borrowing will lead to a solvency crisis.
A month after the UK referendum, the financial and economic shock looks more like a self-inflicted wound than it does a trigger for a global dislocation. Central banks around the world should take it as another argument for easing policy or at least keeping it on hold, though probably not a decisive one.
In Britain, though, both monetary and fiscal policy need to start moving in the direction of stimulus to cushion against likely shocks to come.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); DE Germany; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               430 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit leaves UK firms on the bargain shelf; Investing

BYLINE: Matthew Vincent

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 936 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For shareholders in SoftBank, it is a good job that the 1990s UK start-up called Advanced Risc Machines did not have a subsidiary called Leading Edge Gadgets. If it did, they might justifiably complain that their £24.3bn cash bid for the smartphone chip business - some 70 times its net income last year - was costing them an Arm and a Leg.
As it is, the price being paid by the acquisitive Japanese conglomerate solely for Arm Holdings, as the Cambridge-based company is now known, represents a 43 per cent premium to its pre-bid price.
No wonder Arm's shareholders are expected to bite its hand off.
And no wonder some SoftBank investors are up in arms about it - selling their shares to the extent that the price fell 10 per cent after the deal was announced.
On one measure, however, the price is cheap as chips. Since the UK voted to leave the EU one month ago, sterling has fallen further against the yen. British assets now cost Japanese buyers almost 30 less than they did a year ago.
So, for investors who have missed out on Arm's uplift - its shares have already hit £16.75 on Softbank's £17 bid - the question is: what might be the next Brexit bid target?
Even SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son has alluded to Brexit gambles. This week, he said: "I am one of the first people to bet with a big size on the UK after Brexit."
Others suggest Arm is just the first of many UK bets that overseas buyers will place. One of the Arm pioneers, Hermann Hauser, called the deal as one of the "sad and unintended consequences" of Brexit. Or, as this newspaper put it: "With sterling also down sharply against other currencies like the US dollar and Chinese renminbi, the Arm deal would signal open season for some of the UK's prime corporate assets."
Mr Son insists the deal rationale - adding a leader in mobile device chip design to his technology group - is unconnected to the referendum result. "There was not even 0.1 per cent of Brexit on my mind when I made this decision," he told Japanese reporters.
But there seems no coincidence in Softbank's timing. To comply with the UK takeover code, the Japanese company required its £24bn offer price to be converted from yen and US dollars to sterling - but it did not begin the deal process until July 3, a week after the Brexit-induced sterling collapse.
Of course, some interested parties have preferred to interpret the move very differently. Philip Hammond , the UK's recently appointed chancellor of the exchequer, immediately backed SoftBank's planned acquisition. He called it a "big vote of confidence" in British business - in the first instance of a former defence minister coming out in favour of UK dis-Armament.
Commentators have also pointed out that Arm is not exactly a Brexit bargain, as its shares rose rapidly in the referendum aftermath, offsetting any potential currency benefits. With Apple and other US tech groups among its clients, investors rushed for the relative safety of its dollar earnings. Between the EU referendum and the deal, the yen had risen by about 11 per cent against sterling, while Arm's share price was up about 17 per cent.
Nor is yen strength being brought to bear only in Britain. This week's other big Japanese outbound deal - Komatsu's $2.9bn acquisition of mining kit maker Joy Global - suggests a strong currency is encouraging domestic companies to spend their cash abroad .
However, certain features of the Arm-SoftBank deal suggest it may not be the last Brexit bet placed in the UK. For example, in addition to Arm's pre-eminence in chip design for mobile and "Internet of Things" applications, SoftBank noted that the UK group is cash-generating, and carrying net cash not debt - attractive qualities if, like Mr Son, your current ratio of net debt to earnings is 4.7 times against an industry norm of 3.5.
Imagine if these twin attractions were accompanied by a 15 per cent discount on asking price plus a strong balance sheet and manageable capital needs. Simon McGarry, senior equity analyst at Canaccord Genuity Wealth Management, has now done just that, using his company's proprietary stock picking tool, Quest. He has carried out a screening exercise to single out companies that meet the criteria sought by corporate and private equity buyers. These are:
1 Stable cash flows
2 Low and predictable working capital needs
3 Relatively light capital expenditure
4 A strong balance sheet with assets that can be collateralised
5 Net cash or low debt (including leases and pension liabilities)
6 A strong competitive position, in a relatively recession proof industry.
He has then filtered the results for companies with share prices that have fallen 15 per cent since the Brexit vote, but still have a market capitalisation above £300m.
These are the results, grouped by sector:
  Construction groups Barratt, Bovis, Galliford Try, Persimmon and Taylor Wimpey - takeovers ruled out as "very difficult" by Mr McGarry in the current environment;
  Airline owner IAG - a deal he admits would be too big for private equity;
  Retailers Debenhams and DFS - targets that show "how attractive cash flows are";
  Recruiter SThree - which has a strong free cash flow yield;
  Transport group Go Ahead - for net cash, or low debt with other liabilities counted.
However, when the 15 per cent share price filter is removed, a new group of targets emerges:
  Financial services groups Brewin Dolphin, Henderson, Man Group, and Tullett Prebon.
It seems there is no need to place a Brexit bet on Leading Edge Gadgets when a more old-fashioned industry still looks like a winner.
 Matthew Vincent is the FT's deputy companies editor; matthew.vincent@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (86%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); JP Japan; GB United Kingdom; XO Asia; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               431 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday 11:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit, pursued by a bear: Boris shelves his Shakespeare biography; Originally scheduled for an October release, Johnson's Shakespeare: The Riddle of Genius has been put on ice due to its author's new commitments

BYLINE: Andrew Dickson

SECTION: BOOKS

LENGTH: 398 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Zounds! S'blood! BoJo's Bard biog shuffles off this mortal coil! On Monday it was announced that Boris Johnson's widely anticipated biography of Shakespeare is on ice, indefinitely. Originally scheduled for release this October - rather late for the 400th anniversary of the playwright's death back in April - Shakespeare: The Riddle of Genius "will not be published for the foreseeable future", says its publisher, Hodder & Stoughton. Regrettably for those inclined to schadenfreude, they declined to confirm reports that Johnson will be forced to pay back his advance. Et tu, Boris, et cetera.
Among professional Shakespeareans - think the conspirators in Julius Caesar, only with sharper daggers - there has been a mixture of glee and remorse. On the one hand, many thought the biography wasn't likely to be very good. On the other, everyone would have had a great deal of fun saying so. Even before the announcement, speculation was rife that not a word had actually been written, and that several prominent academics had been begged for last-minute assistance. Hodder won't be drawn on these rumours, either.
The fact that Shakespeare should be yet another casualty of Brexit seems mournfully appropriate. Britain's national poet he may be, but - as the scholar Michael Dobson remarked in a talk at the British Council in Paris - the playwright was un vrai Européen. Not only are most of his scripts set in mainland Europe, particularly Italy (Venice, Verona, Padua, Sicily), but many are drawn from French and Italian sources, some of which he appears to have read in the original languages. Ben Jonson's suggestion that his colleague had but "small Latine and lesse Greeke" may have been accurate, but Shakespeare clearly knew enough French to write much of a scene in Henry V  in the language, poking gentle fun at Henry's inability to master the tongue while wooing Princess Catherine of Valois. It's also likely that he was on nodding terms with the great Italian translator John Florio, and from around 1602 he lodged with a French immigrant family, the Mountjoys, in Bishopsgate.
In 2014 Dobson and others visited Brussels, on a mission to have Shakespeare crowned European laureate - a fitting tribute to a writer whose works unite so many worlds. That project, too, seems to be on ice.
· Andrew Dickson's Worlds Elsewhere: Journeys Around Shakespeare's Globe is published by Vintage.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); ITALY (79%); EUROPE (52%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               432 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote triggers falls in London prices; PROPERTY

BYLINE: Judith Evans

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 120 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Central London homes are undergoing a wave of discounting as sellers give up on their previous asking prices after the Brexit vote. The number of cuts to asking prices surged by 163 per cent in the 12 days following the referendum compared with the 12 days beforehand, according to LonRes, a research firm.
However, the cuts have failed to stimulate more sales: completions fell by 18 per cent from before the referendum, and were down 43 per cent on a year earlier, in the capital's 30 most central postal districts. Homes under offer also declined by 32 per cent from the pre-referendum period to the days afterwards, according to the figures, which are among the first to reflect the impact of the Brexit vote. Judith Evans


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               433 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote weighs on housing market; Property: Referendum fallout

BYLINE: Lauren Fedor and Judith Evans

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 571 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: LSL Property Services, one of the UK's largest estate agency chains, warned yesterday that its full-year profits would be lower than expected because of the impact of the Brexit vote on the housing market.
The warning from Newcastle-based LSL is the latest sign of fragility in the residential property market, which has immediately affected companies dependent on home sales following the vote to leave the EU.
Foxtons, the London-focused estate agency, has also warned on profits, while early market surveys have pointed to a decline in home sales and expectations of price falls since the vote on June 23.
LSL, which operates brands such as Your Move and Reeds Rains, said: "The EU referendum outcome has led to further consumer uncertainty and LSL's post-referendum trading performance has reflected these market conditions."
Group operating profit would be "significantly lower than previously anticipated", it said, given it "does not expect market conditions to improve sufficiently to meet the board's expectations for the full year".
Shares in the group declined 1.2 per cent yesterday and are down 17 per cent since the referendum.
Companies such as Foxtons and LSL, which operate estate agency and surveying businesses, tend to be leading indicators of the health of the housing market given that a slowdown in activity shows up immediately in their results.
Shares in Foxtons dropped 23 per cent in a single day last month after it warned that its full-year profits would be "significantly lower" than last year following the vote.
Surveys of the housing market have also pointed to a decline: the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found that new buyer inquiries had fallen more than a third in June after the vote - which is the fastest drop since mid-2008. Even before the vote, the National Association of Estate Agents said demand had dropped to a three-year low in May.
Analysts at Jefferies said that such findings "make unhappier reading for estate agents than housebuilders" given that "existing homes transactions are much more volatile or sensitive to sentiment than new-build sales".
Even so, Barratt Developments, the UK's largest housebuilder by output, said this month that it was putting land-buying commitments on hold and re-evaluating recent purchases.
Analysts will be closely watching the first-half results of Countrywide and Foxtons, both due for release next week, for further signs of the direction of the market.
Jefferies said that it expected the number of housing transactions to fall by 5 per cent in 2016 against the previous year, and predicted a slight drop in LSL's market share from 2.8 per cent to 2.6 per cent "as it seeks to protect margin" - implying that cheaper agencies might win business from cost-conscious consumers.
While LSL cited a knock to consumer confidence from the Brexit vote, the longer-term outlook for the housing market is likely to depend on factors such as wage growth and mortgage availability.
Simon Embley , LSL chairman, said that "mortgage cost and availability remain positive for the UK housing market", and argued that LSL's "robust balance sheet and balanced business portfolio" meant it could adapt to the changed outlook.
The Bank of England said this week that "there were reports of a dip in housing market sentiment in the days immediately following the referendum, but transactions had so far been more resilient than some contacts had expected".
See Lex


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               434 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit 'was a cry for help from nation divided between haves and have nots'; Alex Ralph talks to an entrepreneur whose Christian faith has inspired a very different approach to business

BYLINE: Alex Ralph

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 1177 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: t was a protest vote, but a protest against what is less clear.
IRegulation? Immigration? Europe? Or something more subtle, more general and closer to home. Gavin Oldham believes he knows the answer. Brexit, he argues, was a cry for help across the chasm that separates the haves from the have nots.
The City, he says, "has become a rather harsh place, where the driver of self-interest has not been well balanced by the understanding that we need to have a generosity to other people as well". In short, while the suits in the Square Mile were chasing and making money, millions beyond its borders were left behind, cut adrift by capitalism. And he is determined to do something about it.
The 67-year-old founder of Share Radio, The Share Centre, a retail stockbroker, and The Share Foundation, a charity, advocates a more egalitarian capitalism. When the result of the European Union referendum vote was known, his three organisations published a poster that goes to the heart of that dissatisfaction and detachment. It shows that the wealthiest 10 per cent of people in the UK have £770,000 each and the poorest just £877.
"When we published that advertisement, I actually sent a copy of it to MPs and asked for their comments. One particular I got back was from the chairman of the 1922 committee [Graham Brady MP] to say 'I'm absolutely in tune with this, this is very much what we want to try to achieve.' " The message is unmistakeably Christian, not surprising coming from a long-serving member of the Church Commissioners and the General Synod, but though he preaches a very different kind of capitalism, Mr Oldham does not see the two as being incompatible. "I don't see any conflict at all. I never have. The whole issues of selflessness and selfishness are interwoven. If you ask someone working for a charity many of them would say: 'I'm actually trying to achieve something.' " As, indeed, is Mr Oldham, on three fronts, The Share Centre being one. Floated in 2008 on AIM in an IPO that valued the business at £43 million, it is not your typical profit-making machine. "It is essentially about reaching as many people as you can. It's not about looking after those who have money.
"Of course an efficient service like The Share Centre should be catering for those people, but our main focus has been building that broad spread of support across society as a whole and The Share Centre has well over a quarter of million customer accounts.
"And it needs to grow like that. We still come across the comment The Share Centre is the best-kept secret because people haven't heard of it."
You might say the same about Share Radio. Broadcasting from leafy Pimlico in the shadow of Westminster, it seeks to promote knowledge of handling money and business. Since becoming a national digital station in March, its weekly listeners have totalled about 120,000, according to a mid-May Ipsos MORI omnibus survey. Radio 4 has about 10.6 million. The Share Foundation, the third part of Mr Oldham's trinity, runs the department for education's junior ISA scheme for looked-after children.
Mr Oldham's motivations are both Christian and secular. The Old Etonian is a scion of a stockbroking family.
msrcbw Working at an aircraft factory during his gap year from Cambridge university, Mr Oldham met colleagues who were reliant on "this week's wages to pay next week's expenses because they had nothing else to fall back on. That was really a wake-up call for me because I suddenly realised I had come from a background where there was investment and savings and there was a cushion, and here were people who really were living hand-tomouth." It emphasised the watch prl me ib importance of building a society where people have a sp stake and an association with businesses.
His Christian faith developed about five years after he founded The Share Centre and about a decade after he had helped to form what today is Barclays Stockbrokers, attending an Oxford diocesan conference in Bognor Regis with his wife. "I found the most incredible sense of goodwill and generosity towards people. It wouldn't be wrong to describe it as this sense of unconditional love flowing everywhere. I remember one of the staff in the canteen saying: 'It's amazing, these Christians are really nice to you. Everyone else is horrible.' I thought: 'Wow, there's something going on here. " Although he says he does not "wear my faith on my sleeve like some sort of brand", it has shaped his career. Bognor Regis led to a scaling of the upper echelons of the Church of England, where at the Church Commissioners he helps manage a £7 billion investment fund.
His work for the Church has seen him come to know another Old Etonian who gave up the corporate world entirely for God. "I wouldn't say I pop round for tea every day, but I've got a lot of time for him," Mr Oldham says of Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury and a former oil executive. "He's doing very well. He's done something I've never done, which is to put it all to one side and concentrate on one's faith."
Mr Oldham, meanwhile, has plenty of his own to concentrate on and is not about to stop now. "I feel the main things to achieve are still ahead of me. It is great to have started Share, but really the main work they have to do is ahead of them and I think they will achieve those things.
"If we carry on with this great gap, then ultimately it's going to lead to a lot of disruption further down the track and I think people have got to sit up and smell the coffee over this. You don't get a vote like that on Brexit unless there are a lot of people very unhappy with how things are being run."
Q&A Who do you most admire? In recent history I would say Nelson Mandela, and of course Jesus Christ Who is your mentor? I would say Sir Martin Jacomb, who I have known since the mid-Eighties What is the most important event in your working life? Probably that quote from Sir Keith Joseph about breaking the cycle of deprivation, which helped me to understand the importance of social mobility What is your favourite TV show? I rarely watch anything other than the news; it's easier to multi-task when you listen to the radio Does money motivate you? It makes things possible, often enables action to be taken earlier than otherwise, certainly liberates. I would never advocate the love of money in itself How do you relax? I really like instrumental folk music; Messing about in boats is great; family togetherness; writing about my faith and the logic that underpins it CV Age: 67 Education: 1962-67: Eton College; 1968-71: Trinity College, Cambridge, management studies, mechanical engineering Career: 1986-90: Barclayshare (now Barclays Stockbrokers), including spells as chief executive and chairman; 1990-present: Share plc founder (chief executive for 24 years, now chairman); 2014-present: Share Radio, managing director and founder; 2005-present: The Share Foundation, managing director and founder; Other: General Synod, Church of England; Church Commissioner Family Married for 41 years, four daughters, eight grandchildren
Graphic
Gavin Oldham said his post-Brexit vote poster, below, about wealth inequality elicited a strong response at Westminster


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               435 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit 'was a cry for help from nation divided between haves and have nots'; Alex Ralph talks to an entrepreneur whose Christian faith has inspired a very different approach to business

BYLINE: Alex Ralph

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1173 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It was a protest vote, but a protest against what is less clear.Regulation?
Immigration?
Europe?
Or something more subtle, more general and closer to home. Gavin Oldham believes he knows the answer. Brexit, he argues, was a cry for help across the chasm that separates the haves from the have nots.
The City, he says, "has become a rather harsh place, where the driver of self-interest has not been well balanced by the understanding that we need to have a generosity to other people as well". In short, while the suits in the Square Mile were chasing and making money, millions beyond its borders were left behind, cut adrift by capitalism. And he is determined to do something about it.
The 67-year-old founder of Share Radio, The Share Centre, a retail stockbroker, and The Share Foundation, a charity, advocates a more egalitarian capitalism. When the result of the European Union referendum vote was known, his three organisations published a poster that goes to the heart of that dissatisfaction and detachment. It shows that the wealthiest 10 per cent of people in the UK have £770,000 each and the poorest just £877.
"When we published that advertisement, I actually sent a copy of it to MPs and asked for their comments. One particular I got back was from the chairman of the 1922 committee [Graham Brady MP] to say 'I'm absolutely in tune with this, this is very much what we want to try to achieve.' "
The message is unmistakeably Christian, not surprising coming from a long-serving member of the Church Commissioners and the General Synod, but though he preaches a very different kind of capitalism, Mr Oldham does not see the two as being incompatible. "I don't see any conflict at all. I never have. The whole issues of selflessness and selfishness are interwoven. If you ask someone working for a charity many of them would say: 'I'm actually trying to achieve something.' "
As, indeed, is Mr Oldham, on three fronts, The Share Centre being one. Floated in 2008 on AIM in an IPO that valued the business at £43 million, it is not your typical profit-making machine. "It is essentially about reaching as many people as you can. It's not about looking after those who have money.
"Of course an efficient service like The Share Centre should be catering for those people, but our main focus has been building that broad spread of support across society as a whole and The Share Centre has well over a quarter of million customer accounts.
"And it needs to grow like that. We still come across the comment The Share Centre is the best-kept secret because people haven't heard of it."
You might say the same about Share Radio. Broadcasting from leafy Pimlico in the shadow of Westminster, it seeks to promote knowledge of handling money and business. Since becoming a national digital station in March, its weekly listeners have totalled about 120,000, according to a mid-May Ipsos MORI omnibus survey. Radio 4 has about 10.6 million. The Share Foundation, the third part of Mr Oldham's trinity, runs the department for education's junior ISA scheme for looked-after children.
Mr Oldham's motivations are both Christian and secular. The Old Etonian is a scion of a stockbroking family.
Working at an aircraft factory during his gap year from Cambridge university, Mr Oldham met colleagues who were reliant on "this week's wages to pay next week's expenses because they had nothing else to fall back on. That was really a wake-up call for me because I suddenly realised I had come from a background where there was investment and savings and there was a cushion, and here were people who really were living hand-tomouth." It emphasised the watch prl me ib importance of building a society where people have a sp stake and an association with businesses.
His Christian faith developed about five years after he founded The Share Centre and about a decade after he had helped to form what today is Barclays Stockbrokers, attending an Oxford diocesan conference in Bognor Regis with his wife. "I found the most incredible sense of goodwill and generosity towards people. It wouldn't be wrong to describe it as this sense of unconditional love flowing everywhere. I remember one of the staff in the canteen saying: 'It's amazing, these Christians are really nice to you. Everyone else is horrible.' I thought: 'Wow, there's something going on here. "
Although he says he does not "wear my faith on my sleeve like some sort of brand", it has shaped his career. Bognor Regis led to a scaling of the upper echelons of the Church of England, where at the Church Commissioners he helps manage a £7 billion investment fund.
His work for the Church has seen him come to know another Old Etonian who gave up the corporate world entirely for God. "I wouldn't say I pop round for tea every day, but I've got a lot of time for him," Mr Oldham says of Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury and a former oil executive. "He's doing very well. He's done something I've never done, which is to put it all to one side and concentrate on one's faith."
Mr Oldham, meanwhile, has plenty of his own to concentrate on and is not about to stop now. "I feel the main things to achieve are still ahead of me. It is great to have started Share, but really the main work they have to do is ahead of them and I think they will achieve those things.
"If we carry on with this great gap, then ultimately it's going to lead to a lot of disruption further down the track and I think people have got to sit up and smell the coffee over this. You don't get a vote like that on Brexit unless there are a lot of people very unhappy with how things are being run."
Q&A
Who do you most admire?
In recent history I would say Nelson Mandela, and of course Jesus Christ Who is your mentor?
I would say Sir Martin Jacomb, who I have known since the mid-Eighties
What is the most important event in your working life?
Probably that quote from Sir Keith Joseph about breaking the cycle of deprivation, which helped me to understand the importance of social mobility
What is your favourite TV show?
I rarely watch anything other than the news; it's easier to multi-task when you listen to the radio
Does money motivate you?
It makes things possible, often enables action to be taken earlier than otherwise, certainly liberates. I would never advocate the love of money in itself
How do you relax?
I really like instrumental folk music; Messing about in boats is great; family togetherness; writing about my faith and the logic that underpins it
CV
Age: 67 Education: 1962-67: Eton College; 1968-71: Trinity College, Cambridge, management studies, mechanical engineering Career: 1986-90: Barclayshare (now Barclays Stockbrokers), including spells as chief executive and chairman; 1990-present: Share plc founder (chief executive for 24 years, now chairman); 2014-present: Share Radio, managing director and founder; 2005-present: The Share Foundation, managing director and founder; Other: General Synod, Church of England; Church Commissioner Family Married for 41 years, four daughters, eight grandchildren
Graphic
Gavin Oldham said his post-Brexit vote poster, below, about wealth inequality elicited a strong response at WestminsterTOM PILSTON FOR THE TIMES


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               436 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit 'was a cry for help from nation divided between haves and have nots'; Alex Ralph talks to an entrepreneur whose Christian faith has inspired a very different approach to business

BYLINE: Alex Ralph

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1177 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: t was a protest vote, but a protest against what is less clear.
IRegulation? Immigration? Europe? Or something more subtle, more general and closer to home? Gavin Oldham believes he knows the answer. Brexit, he argues, was a cry for help across the chasm that separates the haves from the have nots.
The City, he says, "has become a rather harsh place, where the driver of self-interest has not been well balanced by the understanding that we need to have a generosity to other people as well". In short, while the suits in the Square Mile were chasing and making money, millions beyond its borders were left behind, cut adrift by capitalism. And he is determined to do something about it.
The 67-year-old founder of Share Radio, The Share Centre, a retail stockbroker, and The Share Foundation, a charity, advocates a more egalitarian capitalism. When the result of the European Union referendum vote was known, his three organisations published a poster that goes to the heart of that dissatisfaction and detachment. It shows that the wealthiest 10 per cent of people in the UK have £770,000 each and the poorest just £877.
"When we published that advertisement, I actually sent a copy of it to MPs and asked for their comments. One particular I got back was from the chairman of the 1922 committee [Graham Brady MP] to say 'I'm absolutely in tune with this, this is very much what we want to try to achieve.' " The message is unmistakeably Christian, not surprising coming from a long-serving member of the Church Commissioners and the General Synod, but though he preaches a very different kind of capitalism, Mr Oldham does not see the two as being incompatible. "I don't see any conflict at all. I never have. The whole issues of selflessness and selfishness are interwoven. If you ask someone working for a charity many of them would say: 'I'm actually trying to achieve something.' " As, indeed, is Mr Oldham, on three fronts, The Share Centre being one. Floated in 2008 on AIM in an IPO that valued the business at £43 million, it is not your typical profit-making machine. "It is essentially about reaching as many people as you can. It's not about looking after those who have money.
"Of course an efficient service like The Share Centre should be catering for those people, but our main focus has been building that broad spread of support across society as a whole and The Share Centre has well over a quarter of million customer accounts.
"And it needs to grow like that. We still come across the comment The Share Centre is the best-kept secret because people haven't heard of it."
You might say the same about Share Radio. Broadcasting from leafy Pimlico in the shadow of Westminster, it seeks to promote knowledge of handling money and business. Since becoming a national digital station in March, its weekly listeners have totalled about 120,000, according to a mid-May Ipsos MORI omnibus survey. Radio 4 has about 10.6 million. The Share Foundation, the third part of Mr Oldham's trinity, runs the department for education's junior ISA scheme for looked-after children.
Mr Oldham's motivations are both Christian and secular. The Old Etonian is a scion of a stockbroking family.
msrcbw Working at an aircraft factory during his gap year from Cambridge university, Mr Oldham met colleagues who were reliant on "this week's wages to pay next week's expenses because they had nothing else to fall back on. That was really a wake-up call for me because I suddenly realised I had come from a background where there was investment and savings and there was a cushion, and here were people who really were living hand-tomouth." It emphasised the watch prl me ib importance of building a society where people have a sp stake and an association with businesses.
His Christian faith developed about five years after he founded The Share Centre and about a decade after he had helped to form what today is Barclays Stockbrokers, attending an Oxford diocesan conference in Bognor Regis with his wife. "I found the most incredible sense of goodwill and generosity towards people. It wouldn't be wrong to describe it as this sense of unconditional love flowing everywhere. I remember one of the staff in the canteen saying: 'It's amazing, these Christians are really nice to you. Everyone else is horrible.' I thought: 'Wow, there's something going on here. " Although he says he does not "wear my faith on my sleeve like some sort of brand", it has shaped his career. Bognor Regis led to a scaling of the upper echelons of the Church of England, where at the Church Commissioners he helps manage a £7 billion investment fund.
His work for the Church has seen him come to know another Old Etonian who gave up the corporate world entirely for God. "I wouldn't say I pop round for tea every day, but I've got a lot of time for him," Mr Oldham says of Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury and a former oil executive. "He's doing very well. He's done something I've never done, which is to put it all to one side and concentrate on one's faith."
Mr Oldham, meanwhile, has plenty of his own to concentrate on and is not about to stop now. "I feel the main things to achieve are still ahead of me. It is great to have started Share, but really the main work they have to do is ahead of them and I think they will achieve those things.
"If we carry on with this great gap, then ultimately it's going to lead to a lot of disruption further down the track and I think people have got to sit up and smell the coffee over this. You don't get a vote like that on Brexit unless there are a lot of people very unhappy with how things are being run."
Q&A Who do you most admire? In recent history I would say Nelson Mandela, and of course Jesus Christ Who is your mentor? I would say Sir Martin Jacomb, who I have known since the mid-Eighties What is the most important event in your working life? Probably that quote from Sir Keith Joseph about breaking the cycle of deprivation, which helped me to understand the importance of social mobility What is your favourite TV show? I rarely watch anything other than the news; it's easier to multi-task when you listen to the radio Does money motivate you? It makes things possible, often enables action to be taken earlier than otherwise, certainly liberates. I would never advocate the love of money in itself How do you relax? I really like instrumental folk music; Messing about in boats is great; family togetherness; writing about my faith and the logic that underpins it CV Age: 67 Education: 1962-67: Eton College; 1968-71: Trinity College, Cambridge, management studies, mechanical engineering Career: 1986-90: Barclayshare (now Barclays Stockbrokers), including spells as chief executive and chairman; 1990-present: Share plc founder (chief executive for 24 years, now chairman); 2014-present: Share Radio, managing director and founder; 2005-present: The Share Foundation, managing director and founder; Other: General Synod, Church of England; Church Commissioner Family Married for 41 years, four daughters, eight grandchildren
Graphic
Gavin Oldham said his post-Brexit vote poster, below, about wealth inequality elicited a strong response at Westminster


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               437 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Business activity at post-crisis low;   First PMI data since Brexit vote   Steepest fall in services sector 3 BoE poised to act

BYLINE: Emily Cadman and Chris Giles

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 425 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Bank of England and the government are poised to take action to cushion an economic downturn after closely watched figures showed British business activity suffered its sharpest reverse in July since the financial crisis.
The purchasing managers' survey is the most significant evidence yet of damage to the economy from the EU referendum result, but the data has not always been an accurate predictor of a recession.
A snapshot of July's PMI figures yesterday sank to a level associated with recession, economists said, pointing out that equivalent surveys in the rest of Europe and the US showed these economies unaffected by Brexit.
The Markit/CIPS survey, which tracks activity across the manufacturing and services sectors, fell to 47.7 in July from 52.4 in June, indicating that UK business activity was contracting.
This is the lowest reading since the spring of 2009, though still much higher than the indicator's trough in 2008.
The decline in activity was most evident in the services sector, accounting for 80 per cent of the UK economy, with new orders falling at the quickest rate in more than seven years. Data for future business expectations also showed the largest monthly fall on record.
A silver lining in the survey was a rise in new export business on the back of weaker sterling. The data were collected after the initial shock of Brexit, between 12 July and 21 July.
Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said July saw a " dramatic deterioration in the economy " and although he said that sentiment improved in late responses, Markit did not expect the full month's figures, released at the start of August, to improve significantly.
Philip Hammond, who was in China ahead of the G20 finance ministers meeting this weekend, said the government would wait until November to decide whether to "reset" tax and public spending policies. Economists noted that the bad PMI figures would embolden the majority of the BoE's Monetary Policy Committee who want to vote for interest rate cuts and other stimulus measures in early August.
Andrzej Szczepaniak, economist at Barclays, said the data were "consistent with an imminent recession", which was likely to be "shallow and prolonged".
Sterling slid sharply against its main peers following publication of the data.
Dario Perkins, economist at Lombard Street, sounded a less pessimistic tone, saying the way the index was constructed meant "if all firms see a slight decline, the index falls a lot".
Economic health unclear page 2 Northern business fears page 3 Editorial Comment page 10


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               438 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Donegal air and DUP don't mix when it comes to Brexit

BYLINE: John Downing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 719 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: HE Donegal air went to Enda Kenny's head.
That was essentially the rebuke offered by DUP leader Arlene Foster when asked about the Taoiseach's suggestion that a border poll will have to be factored into the Brexit negotiations.
For the second time since the UK voted to leave the European Union, Mr Kenny has found himself at the backend of a slap-down from the North's First Minister.
Firstly she took grave exception to what was perceived as an attempt to bounce her into an all-island forum on Brexit.
And now she is deeply unhappy that the Taoiseach has put the idea of a united Ireland to the forefront of the news agenda.
At an extraordinary meeting of the British Irish Council in Wales yesterday, Ms Foster went so far as to suggest Mr Kenny was deliberatively provocative.
She warned that while it's "all very well" to shoot the breeze at summer schools, the Taoiseach was being "unhelpful and causing instability". She said she hoped "once the summer is over" all leaders can look to challenges ahead.
"I think I'll maybe be saying we should stay away from Donegal on the weeks in the summer and give some thought to other things," said the DUP leader, who campaigned for a 'Leave' vote in the June 23 referendum.
It's worth remembering that in the days after the Brexit vote, the Taoiseach shared Ms Foster's view that talk of a border poll was a distraction.
But the approach wasn't working and when German Chancellor Angela Merkel failed to see why Ireland deserved a special status in the exit talks, Mr Kenny decided to change tact.
He used the MacGill Summer School in Glenties, Co Donegal to broach the idea and arguably it worked.
French President François Hollande publicly cited the Good Friday Agreement as one of the reasons why Ireland is a "special situation". But his efforts to 'I think I'll maybe be saying we should stay away from Donegal on the weeks in the summer' said Arlene Foster win influence in the EU is making the dialogue at home more difficult.
Unionists are very sore that the Irish government is going down this road - even if both sides have the same objective, which is to prevent the return of a hard border between the North and the Republic.
"But seriously I think it has been unhelpful maybe in the way which it has come over," Ms Foster told UTV. "And then there have been denials from Micheál Martin and people like that saying actually they were never calling for a border poll, they were just thinking about it in a different context."
The British Irish Council is a forum of government leaders from all the eight islands around Britain and Ireland.
Sinn Féin Deputy First Minister, Martin McGuinness, said after yesterday's meeting that he had major concerns about the return of a hard border.
But both the Taoiseach and Ms Foster made common cause on the issue. The Taoiseach conceded that the situation was difficult, but he believed the Common Travel Area (CTA) between Britain and Ireland would persist, because it pre-dated the EU and went back to the mid-1920s.
"We have difficulties but I expect we will be able to retain the Common Travel Area as it is part of what we are," Mr Kenny said.
He added that even if goods crossing the border were subjected to controls, technology meant customs checkpoints were not necessarily required.
Ms Foster said it was probable a so-called hard border could be avoided and the border experiences of the 1970s and 1980s was largely a response to terrorist violence.
She said she respected the majority of people in the North backed 'Remain' but the 'Leave' vote applied UK-wide and her job was getting the best arrangements for all the people of the North in cooperation with Mr McGuinness.
Mr Kenny stressed that the North and the Republic had common interests arising from Brexit and again brought the focus back to the fact the British and Irish governments are a co-guarantor of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
The new Northern Ireland Secretary, James Brokenshire, also attended the Council and also held his first meeting with Foreign Affairs Minister, Charlie Flanagan.
Mr Brokenshire said the needs of all parts of the UK had to be served in the upcoming negotiations and he believed that single market access can be maintained without open borders for EU migrants.
"It's not an either/or situation," the Northern Ireland Secretary said.
Graphic
Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, Taoiseach Enda Kenny and Wales First Minister Carwyn Jones, listen as Northern Ireland Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness speaks during a press conference at an emergency meeting of the British Irish Council in Cardiff. Inset: Arlene Foster


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); WALES (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (77%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               439 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Eurozone shows resilience after Brexit vote, statistics reveal; Business poll

BYLINE: Claire Jones in Frankfurt

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 296 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The eurozone economy is proving resilient to the fallout from Britain's decision to leave the EU, new data suggested yesterday, even as signs of a downturn intensified in the UK.
A poll of purchasing managers for the single currency area showed the pace of recovery slowing only slightly after the June 23 referendum. A separate European Central Bank survey of private sector forecasts also showed economists expect the British decision to have only a minor impact on the region.
The purchasing managers' index for the eurozone, compiled by data firm Markit, fell from 53.1 in June to 52.9 in July.
While activity in the eurozone rose at the slowest pace in a year and a half, the decline was less pronounced than some had feared and the figure remains well above the crucial 50 level that marks an expansion in activity.
By contrast, Markit's comparable figure for the UK plunged from 52.4 per cent in June to 47.7 per cent in July, the lowest reading since early 2009.
"The eurozone economy showed surprising resilience in the face of the UK's vote to leave the EU and another terrorist attack in France," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit.
He added that the fragility of the region's recovery left plenty of room for speculation about further stimulus by the ECB next year.
Brexit could dent trade between the eurozone and the UK, while the British vote has also stoked concerns about the EU's future cohesion, contributing to a steep fall in bank stocks in countries such as Italy and Spain immediately after the referendum.
The latest edition of the central bank's quarterly poll of professional forecasters showed that economists expected growth in the single currency area next year to be 0.2 percentage points lower than previously thought.
Editorial Comment page 10


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); ITALY (79%); SPAIN (78%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               440 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Flash' survey points to post-Brexit recession; Economists urge caution over economic snapshot

BYLINE: Tom Knowles; Philip Aldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 453 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The British economy has suffered a "dramatic deterioration" in activity after the vote to leave the European Union, dropping to a level not seen since the financial crisis, according to a closely watched survey.
Economists were warning that the data was consistent with an "imminent recession" after a flash reading of activity in the manufacturing and services sectors showed a decline in output and new orders, while business expectations recorded their sharpest fall ever. The pound slid sharply after the purchasing managers index, which traditionally is considered one of the best indicators of the health of the economy, showed a fall to 47.7 in July, the lowest level since April 2009. Any reading below 50 represents a contraction.
Samuel Tombs, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said that the survey provided "the first major evidence that the UK is entering a sharp downturn".
The data stands in contrast with the more sanguine outlook from the Bank of England's regional agents, who reported on Thursday that most British companies were adopting a "business as usual" outlook until they had more information about the future.
The PMI survey was a "flash" reading, asking businesses to state baldly whether conditions were better, worse or the same on a variety of subjects, such as the level of new orders, purchasing intentions, output, investment and expectations for the future.
It then takes the net position of the responses, adjusts for seasonal factors and produces a hard number. The chief economist at Markit, said: "Some of the later questionnaires coming in said they had seen things improve over the course of the month with the new government being put in place. There were some signs of the political stability coming in."
The PMI data was collected between between July 12 and 21 and was a special one-off survey intended to show the impact of the referendum. The reading is based on 85 per cent of expected responses from manufacturers and service companies. These readings are often revised when firmer data is released.
Chris Hare, of Investec, warned that there had been times in the past where a slump in PMI turned out to be a false alarm, such as the dotcom bust and in the aftermath of 9/11. "The key question
Bank's survey is more nuanced as it is a commentary reflecting the opinions of respondents. It may also reflect the fact that companies have yet to change their practices, choosing to wait a little longer for clearer evidence among customers of flagging demand. A number of economists also pointed to the fact that many of the PMI survey's responses were collected before Theresa May's appointment as prime minister, which will have calmed businesses' fears. Chris Williamson,
Graphic
Flying the flags The chancellor Philip Hammond promoting British business in Beijing yesterday ahead of the G20 finance ministers' meeting in Chengdu tomorrow


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               441 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Flash' survey points to post-Brexit recession; Economists urge caution over economic snapshot Flash survey points to recession

BYLINE: Tom Knowles; Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 45,48

LENGTH: 556 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The British economy has suffered a "dramatic deterioration" in activity after the vote to leave the European Union, dropping to a level not seen since the financial crisis, according to a closely watched survey.
Economists were warning that the data was consistent with an "imminent recession" after a flash reading of activity in the manufacturing and services sectors showed a decline in output and new orders, while business expectations recorded their sharpest fall ever.
The pound slid sharply after the purchasing managers index, which traditionally is considered one of the best indicators of the health of the economy, showed a fall to 47.7 in July, the lowest level since April 2009. Any reading below 50 represents a contraction.
Samuel Tombs, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said that the survey provided "the first major evidence that the UK is entering a sharp downturn".
The data stands in contrast with the more sanguine outlook from the Bank of England's regional agents, who reported on Thursday that most British companies were adopting a "business as usual" outlook until they had more information about the future.
The PMI survey was a "flash" reading, asking businesses to state baldly whether conditions were better, worse or the same on a variety of subjects, such as the level of new orders, purchasing intentions, output, investment and expectations for the future.
It then takes the net position of the responses, adjusts for seasonal factors and produces a hard number. The Bank's survey is more nuanced as it is a commentary reflecting the opinions of respondents. It may also reflect the fact that companies have yet to change their practices, choosing to wait a little longer for clearer evidence among customers of flagging demand.
A number of economists also pointed to the fact that many of the PMI survey's responses were collected before Theresa May's appointment as prime minister, which will have calmed businesses' fears. Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said: "Some of the later questionnaires coming in said they had seen things improve over the course of the month with the new government being put in place. There were some signs of the political stability coming in."
The PMI data was collected between between July 12 and 21 and was a special one-off survey intended to show the impact of the referendum. The reading is based on 85 per cent of expected responses from manufacturers and service companies. These readings are often revised when firmer data is released.
Chris Hare, of Investec, warned that there had been times in the past where a slump in PMI turned out to be a false alarm, such as the dotcom bust and in the aftermath of 9/11. "The key question is whether today's print represents a knee-jerk bout of panic that gripped businesses as they responded to the survey, or whether the signal of an impending recession is a genuine one."
However, Markit, which conducts the survey, said that the fall was consistent with the economy shrinking by 0.4 per cent in the third quarter, a rate of decline not seen since the 2008-09 recession, although it added that this depended on whether the present slump continued.
Manufacturing exports were given a boost by the recent fall in sterling, with new export business rising by its highest level in almost two years in July.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               442 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Global financial firms plot Dublin opportunities in post-Brexit era; Housing, school shortages and cautious regulator may limit scale of new business

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 786 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Overseas financial firms including private equity giant KKR, Silicon Valley Bank, insurer Beazley and Bank of New York Mellon have said in recent days that Ireland is primed to win business from London in the post-Brexit world. 
BNY Mellon, which has about 1,800 employees in Ireland servicing asset managers, insurance companies and hedge funds, highlighted its Irish base on a call with analysts during the week, as clients seek to move funds from the UK. 
"We think we're in good shape operationally to help our clients deal with whatever impact Brexit offers," BNY Mellon's chairman and chief executive Gerald Hassell said, highlighting its operations in Ireland, Luxembourg and Belgium. 
"The fund managers, when they have to think about the jurisdiction of their funds, if they want to move them to the UK to a [location where they can access the EU], we are very well positioned to help them get there." 
Ireland is home to EUR 3 trillion of investment funds, money market funds and special purpose vehicles as of the end of 2015, according to Central Bank data. The extent to which financial services companies and funds will seek to move business from the UK will ultimately depend on the nature of its divorce agreement from the EU and whether Theresa May's government retains its access to the single market. 
Dearth of infrastructure
 Economists at Deutsche Bank warned earlier in the week that a dearth of office space, housing, school places and other infrastructure in Ireland, amid under-investment during the financial crisis, may limit the extent to which Ireland may be able to poach investment and jobs from the City of London. 
Other observers have noted a reluctance by the Central Bank, chastened by the crisis, to approve swathes of regulated financial services business. Still, Cyril Roux, deputy governor at the bank, told industry bodies in the past 10 days it remains committed to a "clear, open and transparent authorisation process while ensuring a rigorous assessment of the application against regulatory standards". 
Beazley, a Lloyds of London insurer, told Reuters on Friday it is working to get European insurance licences for its Irish reinsurance business to allow it to operate throughout the EU, even if Lloyd's loses access to the bloc.
Insurers are making contingency plans after Britain's vote last month to leave the EU left them facing the risk they could lose "passporting" rights that enable them to sell their products throughout Europe.
Dublin is the favoured alternative hub to London for insurers due to its geographical proximity, similar regulatory regime, and English-speaking workforce, industry specialists say. It is already considered an insurance centre, with giant insurer Zurich having its European headquarters here.
Ahead of the UK referendum last month, Lloyd's, which groups more than 80 insurance syndicates in the City of London, warned that the specialist insurance market would be less appealing to investors outside Britain after a Brexit vote.
KKR's co-chief executive Henry Kravis said at an event in Hong Kong earlier this week that Ireland and Luxembourg are likely to be the main beneficiaries about 20 per cent of London's financial sector relocates elsewhere because of the need to passport products and services across Europe. 
KKR, which has $126 billion (EUR 114.4 billion) of assets under management, bought Irish credit investment firm Avoca Capital three years ago. Last year, the firm joined forces with the Ireland Strategic Investment Fund to launch a EUR 500 million fund to provide finance to residential property developers. 
Meanwhile, Gregory Becker, chief executive of Silicon Valley Bank, the Californian tech-to-life-sciences lender, told analysts during the week he sees "plenty of opportunity" in Europe despite uncertainty created by Brexit, having established a presence in Ireland earlier this year. 
Look to capitalise
 IDA Ireland, the State agency in charge of attracting foreign investment, made it clear within hours of the UK referendum outcome last month that it will look to capitalise on the British vote. 
The National Treasury Management Agency said in an investor presentation earlier this month, two weeks after the UK referendum, that Ireland may be a beneficiary from "displaced" UK foreign direct investment, particularly in financial and business services as well as information technology and new media.
Previous NTMA presentations had put a figure of EUR 6 billion on potential investment Ireland could win on the back of the UK quitting the EU. 
"Dublin is likely to compete with Frankfurt, Paris and Amsterdam for financial services, if the UK (City of London), loses its EU passporting rights on exit," the NTMA said. 


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (78%); LUXEMBOURG (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               443 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Heathrow expansion vital after Brexit, says chief; Transport

BYLINE: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 410 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Expansion of Heathrow airport is vital if the UK economy is to cope with life outside the EU, the hub's parent company said yesterday, in its latest effort to secure permission for a third runway.
John Holland-Kaye , chief executive of Heathrow Airport Holdings, stressed the need for the UK to have trading links with markets beyond the EU following the Brexit vote on June 23. "Heathrow is the only way of reaching out towards all of those long-haul trading markets that the UK needs capturing," he told the Financial Times.
After more than a decade of studies, and several delays involving current government, ministers are due this year to decide where to allow a new runway in the south-east of England.
The cabinet of Theresa May, the new prime minister, includes several members who are fiercely opposed to expansion of Heathrow, the UK's largest airport.
It is operating at near full capacity on its two runways, supporting flights to 82 long-haul destinations.
Heathrow could add a further 42 if - as recommended last year by the independent Davies commission - the airport is granted permission to build a third runway.
The £16bn expansion project would give the UK economy a "shot in the arm" at a time of economic uncertainty, said Mr Holland-Kaye.
A decision to build a third runway would also give an answer to investors who questioned whether the government had a plan to withstand the economic pain of leaving the EU, Mr Holland-Kaye said.
"There's no better way of showing global investors that Britain is a confident, outward-looking nation than going ahead and expanding Heathrow," he said, adding: "It's something investors are asking about."
Last week Sadiq Khan, London's mayor, backed the case for a second runway at Gatwick, the UK's second-largest airport.
However, Mr Holland-Kaye insisted that expansion of Gatwick - which mainly supports flights to short-haul destinations in Europe - would provide none of the benefits of extra capacity at Heathrow.
Heathrow is the UK's only hub airport, where significant numbers of passengers transfer between flights to reach their final destinations.
"The choice for this country is: do we want to be the hub or do we want to be a spoke in somebody else's hub?" said Mr Holland-Kaye. "That's the choice between us and Gatwick."
The Davies commission echoed previous studies of airport expansion that found Heathrow's location west of London could make it the best option for extra capacity in the south-east.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); NL Netherlands; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               444 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Heathrow makes noise over Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 224 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain voting to leave the European Union makes building a third runway at Heathrow even more essential, the airport said yesterday, as it revealed a rise in profit (Marcus Leroux writes).
John Holland-Kaye, chief executive, said that only Heathrow could form part of a "positive post-Brexit plan" by connecting the UK to growing economies around the world.
A decision to expand either Heathrow or Gatwick is expected from the government in the next few months, after the Airports Commission recommended a third runway to the northwest of Heathrow.
Opponents of a third runway say that Brexit has undermined the chances of Heathrow expansion because it removed George Osborne, the plan's biggest cheerleader, from government.
Mr Holland-Kaye said: "Heathrow has been named the best major airport in Europe for the third time ...
only Heathrow expansion will help Britain to be one of the world's leading trading nations."
Heathrow's core earnings rose by 4.4 per cent to £781 million. A spokesman said: "In an uncertain economic environment, a £16 billion privately funded infrastructure investment will create up to 180,000 jobs and £211 billion of growth across the UK."
Heathrow is owned by a consortium led by Ferrovial, the Spanish infrastructure and construction company, which owns 25 per cent, and Qatar Holding, which has a 20 per cent stake.
Graphic
Thirty-six million passengers used Heathrow last year as traffic remained close to its capacity. Core earnings rose to £781 million


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               445 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Europe Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Metropolitan myths and Brexit; Undercover economist

BYLINE: Tim Harford

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 861 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Eurosceptic myths that fuelled hostility to the EU are obvious enough. We were told that the NHS was being destroyed by immigration, when more than a third of UK-based doctors qualified overseas. We were told that the EU is a fat bureaucracy, when it employs about as many people as Derbyshire County Council. And we were told that the UK was being buried in red tape, when the OECD reckons it is one of the least regulated economies in the developed world.
It is easy (and useless) to sneer. Yet the metropolitan elite that voted so enthusiastically to remain cherishes its own myths, and those myths did plenty to undermine the cause of remaining in the EU.
Here are four tenets of the trendy centre-left of British politics: first, soaring inequality means that ordinary people haven't shared in the benefits of economic growth; second, rich people and big companies don't pay taxes; third, gross domestic product is a statistic that misses what really counts; and finally, economists are reliably wrong. Flip through The Guardian, browse the popular economics books in your local bookshop, and tell me that these ideas aren't taken for granted among the chattering classes.
Before the referendum, Anand Menon, director of the " UK in a Changing Europe " project, was speaking at a town hall event in Newcastle. He explained that most economists thought Brexit would depress the UK's GDP. "That's your bloody GDP," yelled a heckler, "not ours". Look again at the four articles of centre-left faith. If they are true, then surely the heckler was right. But while there is a little truth in each of these four beliefs, there is less than you might think.
It is true that income inequality in the UK rose very sharply during the 1980s. But by most measures it has been pretty flat since 1990. The top 1 per cent continued to pull away in the 1990s - although not this century - but, counterbalancing that, the gap between people at the 10th percentile and the 90th percentile actually fell between 1990 and 2013-14. Broadly, income inequality is a problem that emerged in the 1980s and has not worsened since. (The Institute for Fiscal Studies report Living Standards, Poverty and Inequality in the UK: 2015 is a good source here.)
The pressing issue for the UK has not been rising inequality but weak growth that has affected most people not only during the recession of 2008, but in the five years before and after it. The problem is not that income growth benefits only the rich. The problem is that there's been little income growth to benefit anyone at all.
The second article of faith is that rich people don't pay taxes. If true, it would hardly matter to ordinary voters if Brexit hurt the rich or drove them away.
But the richest 1 per cent of taxpayers pay nearly 28 per cent of income tax. And, with about 9 per cent of post-tax income, they presumably also pay about 9 per cent of VAT, which is close to being a flat tax. Of course, some other taxes are grossly regressive - most notoriously the council tax, which the European Commission did urge the UK government to reform - but the rich certainly pay enough tax that the public purse would sag if they disappeared. London, too, generated more than 25 per cent of UK taxes, and that proportion has been rising, according to Centre for Cities, a think-tank. After Brexit, who knows?
What about the idea that GDP itself is flawed? Well, yes. It is flawed. It measures things that do not matter and misses things that do. But a sharp hit to GDP will also be a sharp hit to our everyday wellbeing: people will lose their jobs; schools, hospitals and public services will be squeezed as tax revenue dries up.
Consider an alternative measure: the Social Progress index, an attempt to measure what matters in global human development with more than 50 different indicators - including access to nutrition, healthcare and schools. The SPI explicitly excludes financial indicators. Yet there is a very high correlation between the SPI and GDP. (For my fellow nerds: Michael Green, director of the SPI, tells me that the correlation is 0.88 when GDP is measured on a log scale. That's high.) As a measure of human welfare, GDP completely fails in theory. In practice, however, it is not such a bad yardstick.
Finally, there is the low reputation of economists , the result of a global financial crisis that only a few in the profession warned us against. But the institutes that analysed the risks and rewards of Brexit can hardly be blamed for that. The Institute for Fiscal Studies is full of experts on tax and household income; the Centre for Economic Performance studies globalisation, technology and education. Blaming these people for not foreseeing the collapse of Lehman Brothers is like blaming a brain surgeon for the spread of obesity.
Many of the people who rightly scorned the myths put around by Eurosceptics should examine their own fond beliefs. The lesson of the referendum campaign was that emotion trumps rational analysis - and that is not just true of the Leavers.
Tim Harford is the author of 'The Undercover Economist Strikes Back'. @TimHarford; tim.harford@ft.com More columns at ft.com/harford


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               446 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Metropolitan myths that led to Brexit; The undercover economist

BYLINE: Tim Harford

SECTION: FT MAGAZINE; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 855 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Eurosceptic myths that fuelled hostility to the EU are obvious enough. We were told that the NHS was being destroyed by immigration, when more than a third of UK-based doctors qualified overseas. We were told that the EU is a fat bureaucracy, when it employs about as many people as Derbyshire County Council. And we were told that the UK was being buried in red tape, when the OECD reckons it is one of the least regulated economies in the developed world. It is easy (and useless) to sneer. Yet the metropolitan elite that voted so enthusiastically to remain cherishes its own myths, and those myths did plenty to undermine the cause of remaining in the EU. Here are four tenets of the trendy centre-left of British politics: first, soaring inequality means that ordinary people haven't shared in the benefits of economic growth; second, rich people and big companies don't pay taxes; third, gross domestic product (GDP) is a statistic that misses what really counts; and finally, economists are reliably wrong. Flip through The Guardian, browse the popular economics books in your local bookshop, and tell me that these ideas aren't taken for granted among the chattering classes.
Before the referendum, Anand Menon, director of the "UK in a Changing Europe" project, was speaking at a town hall event in Newcastle. He explained that most economists thought Brexit would depress the UK's GDP. "That's your bloody GDP," yelled a heckler, "not ours." Look again at the four articles of centre-left faith. If they are true, then surely the heckler was right. But while there is a little truth in each of these four beliefs, there is less than you might think. It is true that income inequality in the UK rose very sharply during the 1980s. But by most measures it has been pretty flat since 1990. The top 1 per cent continued to pull away in the 1990s - although not this century - but, counterbalancing that, the gap between people at the 10th percentile and the 90th percentile actually fell between 1990 and 2013-14. Broadly, income inequality is a problem that emerged in the 1980s and has not worsened since. (The Institute for Fiscal Studies report "Living Standards, Poverty and Inequality in the UK: 2015" is a good source here.)
The pressing issue for the UK has not been rising inequality but weak growth that affected most people not only during the recession of 2008, but in the five years before and after it. The problem is not that income growth benefits only the rich. The problem is that there's been little income growth to benefit anyone at all. The second article of faith is that rich people don't pay taxes. If true, it would hardly matter to ordinary voters if Brexit hurt the rich or drove them away.
But the richest 1 per cent of taxpayers pay nearly 28 per cent of income tax. And, with about 9 per cent of post-tax income, they presumably also pay about 9 per cent of VAT, which is close to being a flat tax. Of course, some other taxes are grossly regressive - most notoriously the council tax, which the European Commission did urge the UK government to reform - but the rich certainly pay enough tax that the public purse would sag if they disappeared. London, too, generated more than 25 per cent of UK taxes, and that proportion has been rising, according to Centre for Cities, a think-tank. After Brexit, who knows?
What about the idea that GDP itself is flawed? Well, yes. It is flawed. It measures things that do not matter and misses things that do. But a sharp hit to GDP will also be a sharp hit to our everyday well-being: people will lose their jobs; schools, hospitals and public services will be squeezed as tax revenue dries up. Consider an alternative measure: the Social Progress Index, an attempt to measure what matters in global human development with more than 50 different indicators - including access to nutrition, healthcare and schools. The SPI explicitly excludes financial indicators. Yet there is a very high correlation between the SPI and GDP. (For my fellow nerds: Michael Green, director of the SPI, tells me that the correlation is 0.88 when GDP is measured on a log scale. That's high.) As a measure of human welfare, GDP completely fails in theory. In practice, however, it is not such a bad yardstick.
Finally, there is the low reputation of economists, the result of a global financial crisis that only a few in the profession warned us against. But the institutes that analysed the risks and rewards of Brexit can hardly be blamed for that. The Institute for Fiscal Studies is full of experts on tax and household income; the Centre for Economic Performance studies globalisation, technology and education. Blaming these people for not foreseeing the collapse of Lehman Brothers is like blaming a brain surgeon for the spread of obesity.
Many of the people who rightly scorned the myths put around by Eurosceptics should examine their own fond beliefs. The lesson of the referendum campaign was that emotion trumps rational analysis - and that is not just true of the Leavers.
Tim Harford is the author of "The Undercover Economist Strikes Back". Twitter @TimHarford


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               447 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Once power moves to the streets the psychopaths will take charge'; Robert Harris says the political chaos since the Brexit vote resembles pre-war Germany. Lucy Bannerman writes

BYLINE: Lucy Bannerman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 1721 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For a man who believes that the current political climate in Britain is like Munich in 1938, Robert Harris is an unusual kind of optimist.
Power, and the scramble for it, are of course this political thriller-writer's speciality. His work has explored conspiracy, scandal and assassination in ancient Rome, modern Russia, the French Third Republic and the Catholic church. (His new novel is set over 72 hours inside the Vatican as the cardinals plot and haggle behind closed doors to choose a new pope - "a bit like the Labour party".)
Four weeks into post-Brexit Britain and the author of Fatherland, the bestselling novel that imagines the consequences had Hitler won, firmly believes that the nearest parallel to the perilous state of our politics is in pre-war Germany.
His argument is that once power is transferred outside parliament - whether through a referendum that is not rubber-stamped by a Commons vote, a leadership contest not decided by MPs, or a prime minister being booted out of office - we risk losing the safeguards that have spared Britain from power grabs by psychopaths.
"At any given time there's always a percentage of the population that's psychopathic and the important thing is to keep their hands away from the levers of power. By and large the parliamentary system has done that. Oswald Mosley never got a seat. The fascists never got a toehold, nor did the communists. The parliamentary system has been a bulwark of democracy that has served this country well. The moment you go outside it, especially in this culture of social media, all manner of strange convulsions can sweep across in politics." He believes that time has arrived. "That sense of the House of Commons as our cockpit of democracy is passing away."
Harris, who says he holds the Conservatives in contempt for "the way they sprung their infighting on the nation and infected us all with their psychosis" does not support a second referendum. "But I would like to see a parliamentary vote on [this one]. If we don't have one, and it simply goes through like this, then I think that does strike a blow to democracy, especially when you elide it with the collapse of the Labour Party because of extra-parliamentary forces. That's a fundamental blow to the constitution and is exactly the sort of rule by plebiscite that dictators in the 1930s used. That is not simply being like Ken Livingstone and dragging Hitler into the conversation. I'm afraid that's precisely what happened - parliamentary democracy was abandoned in favour of plebiscites then diktat. What could be the next issue that might be settled by plebiscite followed by order in council?"
Since the vote to leave the European Union he said that he could not ignore the feeling "that this is what it felt like to be alive in 1938 in the Munich crisis. You really have to go back to the 1940s to find [the same] sense that all bets were off, all the familiar safeguards were removed. A hurricane is blowing through British politics, and all the old structures that looked so solid will be swept away like matchwood.
"But I'm an optimist. I'm sure we'll all come to terms with it."
I'd hate to meet him on a glum day.
All these ominous parallels with Nazi Germany are undercut by his calm, affable manner. We're talking over a pub lunch near his home in the Berkshire village of Kintbury, where Harris, 59, lives with his wife, Gill Hornby (sister of Nick) and their four children in a vicarage bought after the success of Fatherland.
He has started research for a new book, set in the 1930s, and is finding "no shortage of material" in the news.
"The old allegiances have been broken and people would now be ready to vote for an anti-Westminster, populist party in a way they never would before. I don't want to draw glib comparisons but it's clear that whatever powered Brexit and the rise of Corbyn are, paradoxically, the same forces powering Trump in the US. It's a disillusionment with the established order, allied with new technology and social fluidity." Exactly the kind of febrile conditions, he argues, in which "one could see the possibility for some new charismatic leader and a new form of politics". Once again, "it's a bit like the 1930s".
That doesn't sound very optimistic, I suggest. "Life goes on. The human spirit is resilient. It's a good time to think about history and to reflect on how other societies have coped with this."
The former political journalist, who dedicated 12 years to a trilogy on the rise and fall of the statesman and orator Cicero, also sees parallels between Britain and the Roman republic, Brutus and Michael Gove.
"What went wrong with the Roman republic was that power moved on to the streets. The occupation of the Forum. The whole structure of the Roman Republic was no longer capable of dealing with the realities of what the world had become and therefore the whole thing broke. A pretty sophisticated system disappeared and didn't come back for nearly 2,000 years."
Now, as then, he says: "You sense the modern world has slipped beyond the control of politicians."
As for Gove's doomed bid for leadership, traducing Boris Johnson, he adds with a wry smile: "When Caesar was assassinated I think Brutus got stabbed in the hand by one of the other assassins so he was trailing around with a bloody bandage. When the assassinations start, you never know where the blows are going to land."
Asked for the nearest historical equivalent to Corbyn, the embattled Labour leader, Harris hesitates. "I can't think of anyone in ancient Rome. They would never have risen to the top. He's rather like one of those absolute monarchs that inherits it, like Czar Nicholas II, well-meaning but ineffectual."
He is deeply troubled by the current state of the Labour Party. He grew up in a council house in Nottingham, the son of a printer who read Joyce and a mother who loved classical music. Both left school before 14. Harris went to a comprehensive school before winning a place at Cambridge. He despairs that a working-class boy in his place would now have much less chance of success. "I am not prepared to be lectured by the likes of Seumas Milne [Labour's communications director] and the Wiccamists who run Momentum about the working classes." He is as scathing about Corbyn as he is about his former close friend, Tony Blair. The current leader is about as useful at the despatch box as a "centre-forward with only one leg," he says. "The problem with Corbyn is not the policies because there are no policies. They are simply soothing bromides for everybody. The problem is his sheer incapacity for the demands of the job, which require speed on one's feet, cunning, skill in debate, wit, decisiveness. Almost everything it is necessary for a political leader to possess he does not possess. People say he's like a geography teacher - he's not qualified to be a geography teacher."
Blair will never be able to admit mistakes over Iraq, Harris says, because "he's such a charismatic, messianic leader. If you have that sense of being almost a divine instrument, you can't turn around and say 'I was wrong' because it's denying who you are. There's a very strong mystical element in Tony." He exasperated by the tendency within the hard left of Labour to dismiss all critics as "Blairite" - as the leadership challenger Owen Smith, knows only too well. "Even I am [denounced] as a Blairite. I've written a novel and screenplay and written endlessly against Tony Blair. What else do I have to do, for God's sake?" His commentary on Twitter has proved a hit but he concedes that political discourse, when reduced to 140 characters, "is often reduced to a taunt". "I feel extremely sorry for all those bright, young female MPs and the abuse they get."
He has been on the receiving end of this bile, with some threatening to burn his books and accusing him of not liking Corbyn because "he's not a tool of the Rothschilds".
Labour is in its death spiral, Harris believes. He predicts that if Corbyn defeats Smith to be re-elected as leader the party will be permanently locked out of power. "And the terrifying thing is that for people like Milne this represents a victory for socialism because this will start the break-up of the system. I detected an underlying hope that Britain would vote for Brexit just because of the chaos that would ensue."
A former Labour donor, Harris renounced his support for the party after it appointed Milne, the millionaire former public schoolboy, as its communications director. He tweeted: "Council house born. Comprehensive-school educated. Voted Foot, Kinnock. But not for private-school apologists for IRA and Stalin. Sorry."
Still, he agrees it's an interesting time to be a historical novelist. "I'm just fascinated by this natural element, power, and how it is controlled and guided by mortals. There are times when it is in control and those are relatively peaceful times. Then there are times when it leaps out of control and falls into the hands of the noisiest, the most certain and most extreme and those are difficult times."
He quotes a line from Robert Conquest, the British-American historian known for his work on Stalin's purges of the 1930s. "He said that a healthy society is one that has little interest in politics, and almost the index of an unhealthy society is when everybody starts getting involved. I know we're not supposed to say that but it is the case."
Robert Dennis Harris
Curriculum vitae
Born March 7, 1957 Education King Edward VII school, Melton Mowbray. Selwyn College, Cambridge, where he was president of the union and editor of the student newspaper Varsity Career Journalist at the BBC and Observer, columnist at The Sunday Times and The Telegraph. Bestselling author of historical fiction Family Married to Gill Hornby, the author and sister of Nick Hornby. Four children
Quick fire
Buried or cremated? Buried
Cicero or that other great orator, Melania Trump? Cicero. Although Melania, left, exerts a certain compulsion
House of Cards or Yes, Minister? I'm afraid to say, House of Cards Champagne socialism or Corbynomics?
Champagne socialism every time. In France the socialists have no problem with drinking champagne
Scoop or Stalingrad? Scoop
Sistine Chapel or Westminster Cathedral? Sistine Chapel
Bottle of red or pint of Old Peculier? Bottle of red
Optimist or pessimist? Optimist
Graphic
Robert Harris fears that some hardthe left elements in the Labour Party would regard being permanently locked out of power as a "victory for socialism"


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ROME, ITALY (78%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               448 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Once power moves to the streets the psychopaths will take charge'; Robert Harris says the political chaos since the Brexit vote resembles pre-war Germany. Lucy Bannerman writes

BYLINE: Lucy Bannerman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 1724 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: or a man who believes that the current political climate in Britain is like Munich in 1938, Robert Harris is an unusual kind of optimist.
FPower, and the scramble for it, are of course this political thriller-writer's speciality. His work has explored conspiracy, scandal and assassination in ancient Rome, modern Russia, the French Third Republic and the Catholic church. (His new novel is set over 72 hours inside the Vatican as the cardinals plot and haggle behind closed doors to choose a new pope - "a bit like the Labour party".) Four weeks into post-Brexit Britain and the author of Fatherland, the bestselling novel that imagines the consequences had Hitler won, firmly believes that the nearest parallel to the perilous state of our politics is in pre-war Germany.
His argument is that once power is transferred outside parliament - whether through a referendum that is not rubber-stamped by a Commons vote, a leadership contest not decided by MPs, or a prime minister being booted out of office - we risk losing the safeguards that have spared Britain from power grabs by psychopaths.
"At any given time there's always a percentage of the population that's psychopathic and the important thing is to keep their hands away from the levers of power. By and large the parliamentary system has done that. Oswald Mosley never got a seat. The fascists never got a toehold, nor did the communists. The parliamentary system has been a bulwark of democracy that has served this country well. The moment you go outside it, especially in this culture of social media, all manner of strange convulsions can sweep across in politics." He believes that time has arrived. "That sense of the House of Commons as our cockpit of democracy is passing away."
Harris, who says he holds the Conservatives in contempt for "the way they sprung their infighting on the nation and infected us all with their psychosis" does not support a second referendum. "But I would like to see a parliamentary vote on [this one]. If we don't have one, and it simply goes through like this, then I think that does strike a blow to democracy, especially when you elide it with the collapse of the Labour Party because of extra-parliamentary forces. That's a fundamental blow to the constitution and is exactly the sort of rule by plebiscite that dictators in the 1930s used. That is not simply being like Ken Livingstone and dragging Hitler into the conversation. I'm afraid that's precisely what happened - parliamentary democracy was abandoned in favour of plebiscites then diktat. What could be the next issue that might be settled by plebiscite followed by order in council?" Since the vote to leave the European Union he said that he could not ignore the feeling "that this is what it felt like to be alive in 1938 in the Munich crisis. You really have to go back to the 1940s to find [the same] sense that all bets were off, all the familiar safeguards were removed. A hurricane is blowing through British politics, and all the old structures that looked so solid will be swept away like matchwood.
"But I'm an optimist. I'm sure we'll all come to terms with it."
I'd hate to meet him on a glum day. All these ominous parallels with Nazi Germany are undercut by his calm, affable manner. We're talking over a pub lunch near his home in the Berkshire village of Kintbury, where Harris, 59, lives with his wife, Gill Hornby (sister of Nick) and their four children in a vicarage bought after the success of Fatherland.
He has started research for a new book, set in the 1930s, and is finding "no shortage of material" in the news.
"The old allegiances have been broken and people would now be ready to vote for an anti-Westminster, populist party in a way they never would before. I don't want to draw glib comparisons but it's clear that whatever powered Brexit and the rise of Corbyn are, paradoxically, the same forces powering Trump in the US. It's a disillusionment with the established order, allied with new technology and social fluidity." Exactly the kind of febrile conditions, he argues, in which "one could see the possibility for some new charismatic leader and a new form of politics". Once again, "it's a bit like the 1930s".
That doesn't sound very optimistic, I suggest. "Life goes on. The human spirit is resilient. It's a good time to think about history and to reflect on how other societies have coped with this."
The former political journalist, who dedicated 12 years to a trilogy on the rise and fall of the statesman and orator Cicero, also sees parallels between Britain and the Roman republic, Brutus and Michael Gove.
"What went wrong with the Roman republic was that power moved on to the streets. The occupation of the Forum. The whole structure of the Roman Republic was no longer capable of dealing with the realities of what the world had become and therefore the whole thing broke. A pretty sophisticated system disappeared and didn't come back for nearly 2,000 years."
Now, as then, he says: "You sense the modern world has slipped beyond the control of politicians."
As for Mr Gove's doomed bid for leadership, traducing Boris Johnson, he adds with a wry smile: "When Caesar was assassinated I think Brutus got stabbed in the hand by one of the other assassins so he was trailing around with a bloody bandage. When the assassinations start, you never know where blows are going to land."
Asked for the nearest historical equivalent to Mr Corbyn, the embattled Labour leader, Harris hesitates. "I can't think of anyone in ancient Rome. They would never have risen to the top. He's rather like one of those absolute monarchs that inherits it, like Czar Nicholas II, wellmeaning but ineffectual."
He is deeply troubled by the current state of the Labour Party. He grew up in a council house in Nottingham, the son of a printer who read Joyce and a mother who loved classical music. Both left school before 14. Harris went to a comprehensive school before winning a place at Cambridge. He despairs that a working-class boy in his place would now have much less chance of success. "I am not prepared to be lectured by the likes of Seumas Milne [Labour's communications director] and the Wykehamists who run Momentum about the working classes." He is as scathing about Mr Corbyn as he is about his former close friend, Tony Blair. The current leader is about as useful at the dispatch box as a "centre-forward with only one leg," he says.
"The problem with Corbyn is not the policies because there are no policies. They are simply soothing bromides for everybody. The problem is his sheer incapacity for the demands of the job, which require speed on one's feet, cunning, skill in debate, wit, decisiveness. Almost everything it is necessary for a political leader to possess he does not possess. People say he's like a geography teacher - he's not qualified to be a geography teacher."
Mr Blair will never be able to admit mistakes over Iraq, Harris says, because "he's such a charismatic, messianic leader. If you have that sense of being almost a divine instrument, you can't turn around and say 'I was wrong' because it's denying who you are. There's a very strong mystical element in Tony." He is exasperated by the tendency within the hard left of Labour to dismiss all critics as "Blairite" - as the leadership challenger Owen Smith, knows only too well. "Even I am [denounced] as a Blairite. I've written a novel and screenplay and written endlessly against Tony Blair. What else do I have to do, for God's sake?" His commentary on Twitter has proved a hit but he concedes that political discourse, when reduced to 140 characters, "is often reduced to a taunt". "I feel extremely sorry for all those bright, young female MPs and the abuse they get."
He has been on the receiving end of this bile, with some threatening to burn his books and accusing him of not liking Mr Corbyn because "he's not a tool of the Rothschilds".
Labour is in its death spiral, Harris believes. He predicts that if Mr Corbyn defeats Mr Smith to be re-elected as leader the party will be permanently locked out of power. "And the terrifying thing is that for people like Milne this represents a victory for socialism because this will start the break-up of the system. I detected an underlying hope that Britain would vote for Brexit because of the chaos that would ensue."
A former Labour donor, Harris renounced his support for the party after it appointed Mr Milne, the former public schoolboy, as its communications director. He tweeted: "Council house born. Comprehensiveschool educated. Voted Foot, Kinnock. But not for private-school apologists for IRA and Stalin. Sorry."
Still, he agrees it's an interesting time to be a historical novelist. "I'm just fascinated by this natural element, power, and how it is controlled and guided by mortals. There are times when it is in control and those are relatively peaceful times. Then there are times when it leaps out of control and falls into the hands of the noisiest, the most certain and most extreme and those are difficult times."
He quotes a line from Robert Conquest, the British-American historian known for his work on Stalin's purges of the 1930s. "He said that a healthy society is one that has little interest in politics, and almost the index of an unhealthy society is when everybody starts getting involved. I know we're not supposed to say that but it is the case."
Robert Dennis Harris Curriculum vitae Born March 7, 1957 Education King Edward VII school, Melton Mowbray. Selwyn College, Cambridge, where he was president of the union and editor of the student newspaper Varsity Career Journalist at the BBC and Observer, columnist at The Sunday Times and The Telegraph. Bestselling author of historical fiction Family Married to Gill Hornby, the author and sister of Nick Hornby. Four children Quick fire Buried or cremated? Buried Cicero or that other great orator, Melania Trump? Cicero. Although Melania, left, exerts a certain compulsion House of Cards or Yes, Minister? I''m afraid to say, House of Cards Champagne socialism or Corbynomics? Champagne socialism every time. In France the socialists have no problem with drinking champagne Scoop or Stalingrad? Scoop Sistine Chapel or Westminster Cathedral? Sistine Chapel Bottle of red or pint of Old Peculier? Bottle of red Optimist or pessimist? Optimist
Graphic
Robert Harris fears that some hardthe left elements in the Labour Party would regard being permanently locked out of power as a "victory for socialism"


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ROME, ITALY (78%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               449 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Post-Brexit economic health unclear as all eyes turn to known unknowns

BYLINE: Chris Giles and Emily Cadman

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1030 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The health of Britain's economy one month after the vote to leave the EU is highly uncertain. In the immediate aftermath of the referendum, sterling fell sharply, rating agencies downgraded the creditworthiness of the government and high streets noticed an eerie lull.
Financial markets have since recovered their poise, the economic data rolling in for the second quarter of 2016 appear stronger than expected and while some surveys of sentiment have been dire, others are more sanguine.
During these uncertain times, the most important economic facts are still to come.
Financial markets 
Friday June 24 was a dark day for UK financial assets with sharp drops in the value of sterling and UK equities after fears that the vote for Brexit would generate the bleak conditions required to start another financial crisis.
A month on, most of those fears can be discounted. Mario Draghi, European Central Bank president, said this week the eurozone "financial markets have weathered the spike in uncertainty and volatility with encouraging resilience ".
In the UK, the FTSE 100 index has had a remarkably strong month with the largest companies' equities now trading about 6 per cent higher than on referendum day. More British focused shares in the FTSE 250 index have fallen in price, but at 2 per cent down are hardly positing large losses.
That is not the whole story , as there has been a general global discount in the value of UK assets. With sterling down 11 per cent against the US dollar and 9 per cent against the currencies of the UK's main trading partners, the FTSE 250 has fallen 13 per cent in dollar terms, a far worse outcome than the 14 per cent rise in global equities (excluding the UK) over the same period.
Outside equity and currency markets, the UK government's cost of borrowing for 10 years has dropped from an annual rate of 1.37 per cent to 0.83 per cent. This shows both that there are no worries in financial markets about the UK government's ability to service its debt, but also that economic expectations are weak and investors believe interest rates will remain lower for longer.
Household and company surveys 
With very few exceptions, the private sector economic surveys of the period after the EU referendum have shown very large drops in the measures of sentiment, confidence and production.
The GfK consumer confidence survey remains at a reasonably positive level but has not suffered a larger drop than it did in late June and early July for 21 years. Households report a loss of confidence in the economic outlook, their expectations of incomes and whether it is a good time to make large purchases.
In the corporate sector, surveys from the Institute of Directors, Deloitte and Lloyds Bank have all shown companies reporting a distinct deterioration in business conditions. The one partial exception to this was the Bank of England's report of its regional agents, which showed "no clear evidence of a sharp general slowing in activity" so far, although a third of companies thought they would scale back investment plans over the coming year.
The PMI indices attempt to measure output as well as sentiment. With activity in the flash survey for mid-July at its lowest level since 2009, there was little good news , although manufacturing was hit less hard than services.
The question here is whether the surveys, which often prove good indicators of economic health, are performing reliably after a shock such as the vote to leave the EU.
Hard data 
Surveys are surveys, while the ultimate evidence on the strength of the UK economy will come from incomes, spending, and the national accounts. None of that data will be published until the autumn, but some hard data from around the time of the referendum and its aftermath point to a more mixed picture than the bleaker surveys.
The claimant count measure of unemployment has ticked higher since February, but hardly budged in June, indicating unemployment was stable as the EU referendum took place and there was no sign of a jump in the figures.
Tax revenues for June remained poor. Although up 4.2 per cent in the month on a year earlier, the increase is significantly lower than the Office for Budget Responsibility's 6.1 per cent tax revenue growth forecast for the full year. The OBR said there were "tentative signs of pre-referendum weakness in some receipts" but cautioned people not to jump to conclusions yet about the effects of Brexit.
Evidence from the retail sector is better. John Lewis, which reports sales figures weekly, has found little Brexit effect on sales growth while ecommerce transactions are showing similar growth rates to those before the referendum.
The problem with the hard data so far is that they are patchy and not representative of the economy as a whole. As Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, said: "We don't know a lot more now than we did a month ago."
The known unknowns 
Uncertainty has been associated with a weak economy many times in the past, because companies postpone big investment decisions in buildings, people, plant and machinery if they worry the returns will be low.
Perhaps the most important indicator of economic health will be business investment for the third quarter of 2016. Unfortunately, the equivalent figure for the second quarter will not be published until late August, so this data will not see the light of day until November, the time of the Autumn Statement.
The other big question is whether households, which have cut their rate of saving in recent years, will tighten belts as a reaction to uncertainty or to likelihood of long-term damage from Brexit to living standards. Either could hit household consumption and, since this item accounts for 60 per cent of gross domestic product, it is often the difference between contraction and expansion. Firm figures on household savings rates will not be published for the third quarter until December, while indications of consumption, which go wider than high street sales, are due in November. In the interim, all eyes will be on retail sales, which were strong in June if a little weaker than in previous months.
Eurozone resilience page 5 Editorial Comment page 10


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               450 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday 9:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Riz Ahmed: 'You don't need to tell me we live in scary times. I'm Muslim'; He's in both the new Star Wars and Bourne films, but it's Brexit not blockbusters that's on the rapper-turned-actor's mind

BYLINE: Alex Godfrey

SECTION: FILM

LENGTH: 1548 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Riz Ahmed runs in from the rain. "I'm doing lots of running around at the moment," he says, at his home in south-east London. Today he has been filming Rogue One: A Star Wars Story at Pinewood Studios, fighting the Empire as volatile Rebel pilot Bodhi Rook. "You walk in and get kitted out, it's like, you're there," he enthuses. "They really build the world." Last night, he was at the Leicester Square do for Jason Bourne, in which he stars as a morally murky tech entrepreneur. Then he's off to Vegas for its US premiere. His new HBO crime drama series The Night Of is getting rave reviews. He's just released a music video for Englistan, the title track of his recent mixtape, and is working on an album for Swet Shop Boys, the group he's in with New York rapper Heems. So yes, lots of running around.
 Related:  Five things we learned from the debut trailer for Jason Bourne
In truth, Ahmed has never stopped moving - straddling cultures, pushing buttons, challenging the status quo. Born in Wembley to Pakistani parents who moved to the UK in the 1970s, he won a scholarship to north London public school Merchant Taylors', where he was instrumental in getting an Asian head boy elected, and then Oxford University, where he studied philosophy, politics and economics. On his new song Different, he raps of arriving there and being gawked at by pupils who thought he'd "never survive"; one girl said he reminded her of Ali G. 
While at uni, he set up drum'n'bass night Hit & Run, and put on the only play at the university that featured, during his time there at least, two non-white leads. In 2006, aged 23, he launched film and music careers, headlining Michael Winterbottom's The Road To Guantanamo and releasing the funny, caustic single Post 9/11 Blues, which was immediately banned from the radio (sample line: "Shave your beard if you're brown, and you best salute the crown/ Or they'll do you like Brazilians and shoot your arse down").
On screen, though, he gives off a different kind of charisma, exuding determination and desperation, always seeming on the edge. That dual sense of purpose and vulnerability is catnip to directors. Chris Morris cast him as the only terrorist with even half a clue in Four Lions, while he played the jittery cameraman sidekick of Jake Gyllenhaal's monstrous citizen journalist in Dan Gilroy's Nightcrawler.
Now, this year, he's in two of the biggest blockbuster franchises around. For Jason Bourne, the series is back in the hands of director Paul Greengrass and star Matt Damon. Ahmed plays Aaron Kalloor, head of a social media company that claims to protect its users' privacy above all; in reality, Kalloor is in cahoots with the CIA, where dirty dealing has muddied those principles. The film, which boasts all the heart attack-inducing action you'd expect, plays on our mistrust of corrupt corporations. I wonder how much that influenced Ahmed, clearly a politicised person, to take the role.
"It was a no-brainer," he says, excitedly. "The Bourne films totally reimagined and elevated the action genre. But as I learned more about the character I started rubbing my hands with glee, because it's an area that really interests me. Anyone driving great social change, willingly or not, is going to be a fascinating contradictory mix of idealism and ego. You've got people who are utopian idealists that are also very focused, ambitious capitalists. And as an actor that's a super-interesting character profile."
 Related:  Riz Ahmed: 'Life is about transcending the labels people impose on you'
The privacy versus safety debate lies at the heart of the film's political conflict, which only seems more apt now we have a prime minister whose snooper's charter looks ever more inevitable. What's Ahmed's take? "I really sympathise with the argument that Edward Snowden and Glenn Greenwald have made," he says. "The idea that we are somehow crippling our security services and not enabling them to do their jobs if we say no to universal mass haulage of data, I think is nonsense. Allowing unlimited mass surveillance of all communications [made] by all people is destroying the freedom that we're meant to be protecting. It's building a tool for totalitarian social control that is terrifying in its misapplication."
With Brexit engulfing the land, a people divided more than they've been in living memory, and terrorist activity on the rise, privacy seems as if it might slip from our grasp. "Yeah man, scary times," says Ahmed, sounding genuinely afraid. "What happened in 1930s Europe, we had a rise in inequality, financial crisis and collapse, polarisation of the political parties, the rise of the far left and the far right, disillusionment [towards] the establishment, and the systemic scapegoating of ethnic minorities," he says, drawing contemporary parallels. "So yeah, you don't need to tell me we live in scary times, man. I'm Muslim."
Ahmed was an enthusiastic Remain supporter and that standpoint has infiltrated his music in particular. He recorded Englistan - which features lyrics such as: "Is Britain great? Well hey, don't ask me/But it's where I live and why my heart beats" - long before the referendum result was known, but filmed the video a few weeks ago, in the wake of post-Brexit racial hate crimes. It begins with images of years of anti-immigrant scare-stories from tabloid front pages, and he gets riled up talking to me about the Sun's minuscule apology for a 2013 headline about 600,000 EU benefit migrants, which turned out to be false. "People need to be held to account for that," he says. "This isn't some press baron's personal fiefdom, this is [about] people's lives, and playing with fire like this leads to the house burning down. We've seen it happen before in Europe and it's happening elsewhere around the world. We shouldn't think we're insulated from the possibility of that happening here."
Ahmed isn't afraid of being outspoken and doesn't care, he says, if he pisses people off. His Facebook page is full of galvanising, politicised posts - not hashtagged token gestures, but researched, informed viewpoints and conclusions. He was at the Occupy protests in New York and London, and knows British history back to front. So many actors today, ultimately concerned with protecting their brand, have been numbed by media training, but Ahmed is not your typical thesp. He notes that many of the areas that voted out did so despite having received high levels of EU funding, or having relied on the union for export trade, and suggests their motivation was instead to take a stand against the establishment. 
"I understand that many people had reasons for voting that weren't driven by xenophobia but it's clear to say that riling up fears of being invaded by migrants and foreigners played a massive role in the success of the Leave vote. We need to be vigilant about the crossroads we're at and be vigilant against those who are trying to divide us. Anyway, fuckin' hell, I've depressed the shit out of myself."
He's loathe to call anyone a racist and says people aren't essentially good or bad, just shaped by the experiences they're going through. What he says is needed is a greater sense of empathy. The Englistan video was filmed in a synagogue that used to be a church, founded by French Protestant refugees ("like Nigel Farage's ancestors"), and is a stone's throw from a mosque. "For me that's a beautiful thing," he says. "Multiculturalism isn't just a buzzword, it's not just something to debate - I am multiculturalism. And so is Nigel Farage, because of his ancestors. We talk about it as if it's something else, as if it's a guest that may have overstayed their welcome sitting in the front room, but what we're talking about is us."
Ahmed's work seems to reflect these sensibilities. Many of his films deal with socio-political concern: The Road To Guantanamo was a dramatisation of the detainment of the Tipton Three; Nightcrawler was an attack on an immoral, mercenary media; and in The Night Of (which airs here in September), Ahmed's character has to deal with incessant anti-Muslim sentiment, from pedestrians to the police. 
I ask how intentional that is, but he challenges the mere notion of it. "It's interesting that we assign the label 'political' to art that doesn't just fit a mould of status quo," he says. "Is Downton Abbey not political? That's political! Every piece of art offers a perspective on the world. And what is politics if not a perspective on the world? Downton Abbey is about class. It's also about race. People are surprised when you tell them how long there have been black or brown people in this country. Hundreds of years, man! What you focus on is a decision. And that decision is based on a perspective, and perspective is based on your gut instinct."
Then, though, he concedes. "If you're saying that the work I've done is post-9/11 stuff, I think it's natural that we've wanted to tell those stories as a society because it's a fixation of ours, with some justification. I've been proud to tell those stories that have added some nuance and complexity to those narratives." He's done that from the start and shows no signs of stopping. Expect a lot more running around.
                     Jason Bourne is out in cinemas from Friday 29 July                   


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               451 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ten key questions you asked us about life after Brexit

BYLINE: Naomi Rovnick

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 3323 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Amonth on from Brexit, FT Money has been swamped with questions from readers who want to know what the vote means for their money.
Many indicators are in flux. Early economic data has signalled a slowdown , the UK-centric FTSE 250 has swung like a pendulum, the pound hit its lowest level against the dollar in 31 years and estate agents are reporting a marked drop in activity . The Bank of England has signalled strongly that interest rates will be cut in August , while business and consumer confidence has dropped.
But most experts are urging investors to be cautious, particularly if they have a long-term financial plan put together by an adviser with tax, inheritance and asset allocation in mind.
"When a big event like Brexit happens, investors instinctively feel like they should react, like they should do something to avoid becoming roadkill," wrote Patrick Chovanec, the chief strategist at US wealth manager Silvercrest Asset Management in a note to clients. "In fact, investors should only change their strategy if what happened has changed their outlook."
There is no denying, however, that the Brexit vote could have big ramifications for our pensions, properties, financial commitments in currencies other than sterling, and even our ability to trade classic cars.
FT Money has compiled a selection of questions from readers and asked FT specialists to respond with the help of financial experts. So if the referendum has left you worried about any aspect of your financial life, here are some views you can use.
1 To buy or not to buy
I am buying a house and worry about going ahead considering the economic instability that Brexit has been forecast to bring. Should I cut my losses and wait for a while? 
With little hard data so far on the economic fallout of Brexit, your decision will be guided largely by your instincts on what a downturn would mean for your prospects, as well as your reasons for buying, writes James Pickford, FT Money deputy editor.
No one will be able to tell you now whether your job would disappear in a recession, but if you feel it is at risk, then simply for peace of mind financial advisers might steer you away from taking on a large mortgage until the picture is clearer. The first significant data is expected to trickle in from August.
If you feel you have to buy a home and intend to live in it for many years - and can demonstrably afford to pay the mortgage even if interest rates shoot up in future - then any short-term fluctuations in pricing are likely to be less material to you. Mortgages have never been cheaper , with fixed-term rates at record lows.
If you are buying a property as an investment or do not plan to stay long, you will need to take a much closer look at values in your area - whether they are at historic highs and how they compare with average wages, for instance - to get a sense of how vulnerable they might be to a fall in prices.
Bear in mind that doing nothing may not be without its own consequences: if, say, you are a tenant in an area where rents are rising fast or rental properties are short on the ground, you may find more of your income absorbed by the roof over your head.
Jeremy Duncombe, director at broker Legal & General Mortgage Club, says the best course of action would be to consult a financial adviser. But he made clear the financial mood was very different from that which prevailed after the crisis of 2008, when lending froze.
"We have not seen the negative reaction that was predicted as a result of Brexit and, at the moment, it is still very much business as usual in the mortgage market ... lenders are still very keen to lend and in some cases have dropped longer-term fixed rates, making now a prime time to take out a mortgage."
2 London property prices
How will Brexit affect property prices in prime central London? 
The high-end London property market has been in decline since 2014, writes Judith Evans, property correspondent. Prime central London prices fell 8 per cent between that peak and the time of the referendum, according to Savills, the estate agent.
After the vote, the early signs are that the choice to leave the EU has prompted vendors to adjust their expectations downwards. Cuts to asking prices in central London surged by 163 per cent in the 12 days after the vote, compared with the same period beforehand, according to LonRes, a data provider.
Four weeks after the vote, the Bank of England says it has revised downward "significantly" its house price forecasts, while analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch - among the more pessimistic - project a 10 per cent drop across the UK in the next year.
The future of the prime central London market will depend on two key questions: how low sellers will need to bring prices before buyers feel insulated from future price falls; and to what extent those choosing not to buy a new home in London because of Brexit will be outweighed by speculative investors, particularly those feeling currency gains as sterling drops.
Anthony Payne, LonRes managing director, believes cuts to asking prices will eventually help to bring buyers back into the market. But few analysts expect Brexit to provide a price boost, especially given the uncertainty around the capital's future as a financial centre.
According to Savills' predictions, the market in central London will "remain price sensitive" in the short to medium term, partly due to increases in stamp duty over the past two years.
3 Is my pension safe?
I have been working in the EU for a long time and have built up a pension. What effect will Britain exiting have on my ability to draw on or transfer my pension from another EU country? 
Like many other aspects of your personal finances, arrangements for cross-border pensions - both private and state - in a post-Brexit world will depend on the final deal struck with the EU, writes Josephine Cumbo, pensions correspondent.
But some legal experts do not anticipate a vast change for private pensions, which are largely unaffected by EU law.
Rosalind Connor, a partner with Arc, the specialist pension lawyers, says UK citizens who have built up private pensions in EU zones, can leave their pension pot behind, to pay out when they retire, if they return to the UK.
"At the moment, EU law means they cannot be taxed differently on the pension because they are overseas, but of course that could change post-Brexit," she notes.
She adds that if anyone is concerned about a EU-based pension pot, they could investigate transferring it to a UK registered pension.
In contrast, future entitlements to state pension following Brexit face far greater uncertainty, Ms Connor says.
Currently, if someone from the UK works in another EU country and pays local taxes towards social security, they will get social security benefits, including contributions towards pensions, as if they were a citizen of that country. "That won't necessarily apply any more on Brexit," she says.
4 End of the road?
I buy and sell classic cars as investments, and the people I trade with are all over the EU. Because of Brexit, we do not know what trade tariffs will be between the UK and European countries. Cars have had a great run, but should I stop investing in them now? 
Investments in classic cars have driven serious growth over the last three years, fuelled by high levels of demand for iconic models, writes Peter Campbell, motor industry correspondent.
The HAGI index, which tracks the value of mid to high-end classic vehicles and forms part of the Knight Frank Wealth Index, rose by double digits in the first six months of 2013, 2014 and 2015.
But worries over Brexit will not take the gloss off the allure of vintage vehicles, according to dealers. "Since 24 June, everyone we have talked to says it is business as usual," says Dietrich Hatlapa at Historic Automobile Group International, who compiles the HAGI index.
"Some UK dealers actually see it as brilliant, because our stock appears very cheap because of the decline of sterling. This is a global market." US buyers of British cars "couldn't believe their luck" at the deals available, he added.
The index has grown by 1.8 per cent in the six months to June - considerably lower than the impressive rates notched up in past years. This is not due to concerns over access to the single marker, but instead an increasing number of restored vehicles becoming available in response to the high demand of the recent past.
"There's now a huge amount of supply," says Mr Hatlapa.
5 The weak pound
I live and work in the UK, but have $200,000 of US student loan debt to repay over the next 20 years. With the pound as weak as it is, the cost of my monthly repayment has just gone up by 20 per cent. What should I do with my finances to mitigate this problem? It has wiped out my discretionary income, despite the fact I earn a very good wage. 
In your situation, financial advisers and planners say there is no magic bullet, writes Naomi Rovnick, digital and communities editor of FT Money.
Many report having clients in a similar situation to you, who have financial commitments in dollars, perhaps because their children are studying in the US, or that they are paying monthly support to ex-spouses or elderly parents who live across the Atlantic.
For people who are able to plan for having financial liabilities in dollars, the best thing they can do is "dollar cost averaging", says Simon Davis, wealth management director at Charles Stanley. This involves drip feeding sterling into dollars each month, to build up a stack of the US currency in a manner that insulates them from wild swings in the exchange rate.
In the case of someone who has debt in dollars and not many spare pounds, a reduction in discretionary income is sadly inevitable, Mr Davis says. He recommends that you examine your expenditure closely, to work out where savings can be made.
Perhaps you buy an expensive sandwich each lunchtime, when you could easily bring bread, cheese and tomatoes to the office from home. You might like going to nightclubs or buying clothes, but these must be sacrificed for a while.
If you have expensive credit card debt, you should transfer it to a card with an introductory rate of zero per cent interest. Many of these deals currently last 40 months, and could get even longer, as the Bank of England base rate stays ultra-low. Many such cards come with fees and balance transfers, however, of up to 4 per cent of the outstanding debt.
6 Sterling hits savings
Should I switch my sterling savings into dollars? Or euros? How easy is this to do and how should I do it? Transfer all of my money at once, or a drip-feed strategy? 
This is a tricky one, writes Katie Martin, head of FastFT. My first question to you is: do you have a time machine? If so, nip back to June 22 and flip it all into dollars.
If not, it is worth being aware that sterling has almost certainly not done falling yet. It has, of course, tanked against the dollar since the referendum result. One pound bought you $1.50 shortly after 10pm on June 23. It buys just $1.32 at the time of writing, hovering around a 31-year low.
Most professional currency watchers think it has further to fall, perhaps as low as $1.10, more likely to the mid-to-high $1.20s, when the hard data on the scale of the blow to the UK economy start trickling in. A rally is not inconceivable, but it does seem unlikely and would probably be much smaller than the potential decline. Similar weakness probably lies ahead against the euro, although to a lesser degree, given that Brexit does pose some risks to eurozone economic growth.
If you are uncomfortable with that, there are loads of ways to switch into dollars, but be canny. If you ask your usual bank, you may not get a great rate. That means the currency would have to fall quite a bit more until you are "in the money". But if you do, you may avoid transfer fees and hassle to move the funds from one account to another, so the all-in price might be better. Given the exchange rate you are likely to get, doing it all at once rather than subjecting yourself to repeated fees and poor rates makes sense.
For an offbeat way of benefiting, beyond dollar-denominated savings accounts, analysts say you could invest in the FTSE 100. It is packed with dollar-earning companies that perform very well when sterling stumbles. They should also benefit from cuts to UK interest rates.
The FTSE 250 is a much more domestic bet, but the FTSE 100 bounced back handily after a post-referendum drop and if sterling tanks further, it almost inevitably has further to climb.
7 What is the outlook for gold?
Because of the uncertainty of how Brexit will affect the UK economy, should I switch at least some of my sterling-denominated savings and investments into gold ? What is the outlook for the gold price over the next three and five years? What will affect it, other than Brexit? 
Gold performed its role perfectly in the aftermath of the Brexit vote, writes Henry Sanderson, commodities correspondent. The metal has long been viewed as a safe haven due to the belief that it has held its value over centuries despite endless wars, financial crises and different types of paper currency. As it became clear the UK was voting out, gold shot up 8 per cent. That momentum helped propel it to a two-year high of $1,375 a troy ounce on July 11.
Still, fear only lasts so long. As markets have now calmed down, gold has lost some of its lustre.
Gold investors tend to be fickle, turning to other assets once uncertainty subsides. That has seen investors pour money into US equities over the past week, sending the S&P 500 index to a record high. "Gold prices seem vulnerable to the downside as the financial markets look more confident," Jim Steel, an analyst at HSBC, says.
As the UK battles its way through the Brexit negotiations the outlook for the gold price is likely to depend on what happens with US monetary policy and the dollar. Unlike a concentrated period of uncertainty, monetary policy is far harder for investors to predict. That is partly why most analysts and bullion dealers recommend holding only a small portion of their portfolios in gold: it may be loved in times when everything seems upside down, but when the ship steadies, gold is left at the mercy of our fast-moving financial markets.
8 North of the border
Should I invest in Scotland, given the possibility that Scotland will break from Britain but stay in the EU? 
In a word, no, writes Jonathan Eley, deputy editor of Lex. There are far too many imponderables for this to be a realistic investment strategy in anything but the long term. Will the Scots be granted another referendum ? Will the nationalists win this time? If so, how quickly could Scotland become an EU member? What currency would it use? It could be years before the answers to these questions become clear.
Scottish companies have also underperformed. Paul Marsh and Scott Evans at the London Business School constructed a "Scotsie" index prior to the 2014 independence referendum.
Their analysis shows that between 1955 and 2014, Scottish shares returned 11.5 per cent a year with dividends reinvested, against 12.6 per cent for non-Scottish UK shares. Scottish shares underperformed UK stocks between the Scottish and EU referendums, and they have underperformed since the Brexit vote, too.
Much of that is down to the high weighting of Royal Bank of Scotland in the Scotsie. Leaving RBS (and Standard Life, another heavyweight) aside, many Scottish companies are heavily exposed to the oil and gas industry, which is also going through a tough period.
It seems unlikely that Scottish shares will outperform shares generally any time soon. Anyone seeking a Celtic winner from Brexit should look west, not north; while Ireland's economy is closely linked to the UK's, its biggest companies are thoroughly global and doing well.
9 Look for less volatility
Is it a good time to pull out of the FTSE 100 and put my equity investments into the US S&P 500 or the Dow? 
The FTSE 100 has regained its poise after Brexit, the US indices have retaken record highs, while yield remains the holy grail for investors everywhere, writes Michael Hunter, markets reporter. The Wall Street rally has been powered by utility stocks - in no small part because of their dividend-paying prowess - while investors have switched from more glamorous growth stocks such as Facebook and Amazon.
London's main index will benefit from the weaker pound, since the bulk of its revenues are earned in foreign currency which can buy more sterling. But over the longer term, the political outlook remains uncertain. Meanwhile, Wall Street will have to contend with higher rates before all of Europe faces such a test, which could also unnerve the markets.
Actively-managed funds have been struggling to compete with the carefully designed trackers known as " smart beta ", which have produced comparable, and sometimes better, returns which much lower fees. One brand of this approach - low-volatility investing - seeks to pick stocks less prone to big swings. The theory goes that such stocks protect against the worst of the downside, while some research suggests they also put in a more reliable, if less spectacular, showing over the long run.
"Smart beta can be achieved without looking overseas and unless you're planning on emigrating, critically your assets are in the same currency as your liabilities," says John Blowers, head of Trustnet Direct.
"There are ways to play currency trends within the FTSE 100 - some of its best dividend stocks pay out in dollars, and the cheap pound is driving up the prospect of potential gains from international M&A, too."
Perhaps this is a good time for the investors to adopt an approach that we could call the "inverse-Farage": stop thinking about national borders, and instead blend your own smart beta portfolio of low-volatility stocks that can hold their nerve in times of trouble on either side of the Atlantic.
10 Value in government bonds?
Why are so many investors buying UK government bonds when the outlook for the UK economy is weak and the UK has lost its triple-A credit rating? Should I also be buying these bonds, even though I am not sure if the UK is a good investment? 
The answer to this depends on how optimistic you feel about the UK's economic recovery, writes Elaine Moore, capital markets correspondent. If you believe the naysayers are wrong and Britain's separation from the EU presents a chance for the economy to flourish then fixed income securities are not the right purchase for you.
If, on the other hand, if you think inflation and growth are likely to remain sluggish over the long term and the Bank of England will have to step in with a new round of rate cuts and quantitative easing, then locking in current interest rates in gilts may look more appealing.
Contrary to most forecasts, gilts have been one of the best assets in major global bond markets so far this year - paying double-digit total returns - and one of the biggest players in the market thinks the rally has further to go.
"Given the weak growth profile, we expect the Bank of England to cut official rates toward, but not below, zero, and thereafter consider quantitative easing if further stimulus is deemed necessary," says Mike Amey, head of sterling portfolios at Pimco. "This should support gilts."
Finally, a word on that precious AAA rating. The loss is embarrassing to the government but has had no discernible impact on government bond prices. The UK has never defaulted on its debt and even without a gold-plated credit rating, it is not expected to start now.
The opinions in this article are intended for general information purposes only and should not be used as a substitute for professional advice. The Financial Times Ltd and the authors are not responsible for any direct or indirect result arising from any reliance placed on replies, including any loss, and exclude liability to the full extent permitted by law


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (73%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               452 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: This is our home. Why are they giving all the jobs to foreigners?; Andrew Norfolk visits Grimethorpe in South Yorkshire, where anger over immigration drove voters to choose Brexit

BYLINE: Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 2037 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The "Polish products" (picture caption, July 23) in a Grimethorpe shop were, in fact, Czech.
He barely raises his head to explain, almost apologetically, that "You just feel let down by how things have happened around here". Asked why he voted Leave, there is a brief glance up to make eye contact. The gaze is one of defiance, tinged with a hint of despair.
"Why not? We've tried everything else."
The former miner lives in a South Yorkshire village that our nation left behind. In the EU referendum, it hit back. To spend a day in Grimethorpe was to begin to understand why so many people in Labour's northern heartlands chose Brexit. And why Ukip is licking its lips.
A few locals said that they voted Out to kick the Tories; to stick a finger up to "the rich and the elite". Others wanted to "take back our island". Some seemingly yearned to rewind history, to return to a past that no longer exists.
Overwhelmingly, however, the voters of Grimethorpe went to their local polling stations - in numbers unprecedented in recent years - to signal anger, confusion, bitterness and fear about a single, dominant issue.
In this almost all-white village of 4,500 people, five miles from Barnsley, last month's referendum was all about immigration.
More specifically, although residents young and old tended to put it rather more bluntly, their votes were their verdict on the impact of EU freedom of movement rules on English communities where, according to one Labour MP, "a lot of my people have never even been to London".
For an explanation, one need look no further than the former site of Grimethorpe colliery. On its grave stands a giant industrial park whose two biggest companies employ hundreds of recent arrivals from eastern Europe.
They came to the UK because jobs in Grimethorpe were advertised in Poland and Romania. Many villagers feel cast aside in favour of unskilled, low-wage migrant workers who speak no English. They do not think that is fair.
Big northern cities such as Leeds, Manchester and Liverpool, which all voted Remain, have found it easier to absorb much larger numbers of EU migrants. In the region's post-industrial towns and villages, small changes have had a much bigger impact.
The three most pro-Brexit areas of Yorkshire were the adjoining local authorities of Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham, where the combined Leave vote was 68.4 per cent.
While the referendum turnout nationally was six percentage points higher than in last year's general election, across those three councils it jumped by 11 points. All nine Westminster seats are held by Labour MPs who backed Remain. In seven of them, Ukip came second in 2015.
In Barnsley alone, more than 20,600 people who did not vote for any party at the general election chose to have their say in the EU referendum. In the council ward that includes Grimethorpe and a couple of neighbouring villages, turnout rose from 5,679 to 6,858.
Here, they say their children's nursery school places are being handed to Polish children. They want to know why the labels of so many products in the local convenience store are in a language they cannot understand. If this is progress, they don't want a bar of it.
November will bring the 20th anniversary of the release of Brassed Off, the widely acclaimed film about a brass band from a looselyfictionalised village, Grimley, whose coal mine has been earmarked for closure. It was Grimethorpe's story, with a soundtrack courtesy of the Grimethorpe Colliery Band.
Andy, the band member played by Ewan McGregor, remarks at one point: "The only reason I get up in the morning is to see if my luck's changed. And it never bloody has." In this part of South Yorkshire, that sounds about right. Grimethorpe's reason to exist was its colliery, which began producing coal in 1894. The village was built to serve the pit. In 99 years, 155 people died underground. When it closed in 1993, a community lost its soul.
Houses were abandoned; shops and pubs closed. Cue boarded-up and vandalised properties, soaring crime levels and a surge in the use of hard drugs by teenagers denied a future. The village was dying.
What ensued was a remarkable regeneration programme that from 1997 to 2010 pumped pf £165 million of public and privatesector investment into one fractured community. The contribution from local and national government, plus significant EU funding, totalled £67 million. Contaminated land was reclaimed and a new link road built. Derelict houses were demolished and replaced by 600 new homes.
At the heart of the project was the new industrial estate. Its biggest companies are Asos, the UK's biggest independent online fashion retailer, and Symphony Group, Britain's largest privately-owned manufacturer of fitted kitchen and bedroom furniture. Locals claim that most employees at both companies are foreign nationals.
Asos has a giant distribution warehouse the size of six football pitches.
Its management is outsourced to a global logistics company, XPO, that employs 4,000 people at the site.
Symphony has 800 production workers at its Grimethorpe factory, less than half of whom are UK nationals. An estimated 430 employees are EU migrants, 96 per cent of them from Poland. Asos declined to provide a nationality breakdown for its 4,000 warehouse workers, many of whom are thought to be Polish or Romanian.
Both companies admitted using agencies that recruit overseas. Symphony said that jobs were advertised in Poland to meet vacancies it was "unable to fill from the local area". An XPO spokesperson said that it selected "the best talent for our organisation irrespective of background, race or any other factor". Asos said that it focused on providing jobs for the people of Grimethorpe and the wider Barnsley community but it was "not always possible to fill all our roles locally".
None of which batters many haddocks at Grimethorpe's White City Chippy, where Chelsea Priestley told of the day she went for a job interview at Asos. "Me and my mam went and there was a load of Polish people there, talking all jibber-jabber. We turned up, had an interview, then they took us to one side and said they didn't want us. They gave the jobs to the foreigners. It's not fair. This is our town."
Ms Priestley, 26, proceeded to conduct a guided tour of the small convenience store next door, which was indeed "full of Polish stuff" including an impressive variety of sausages and 17 brands of Polish beer.
"All this bread's Polish as well. We can't read the labels. It's disgusting and it needs sorting out. If I went over to Poland, d'you think they'd have a Warburton's loaf for me?" The store's owner, who said that Polish products amounted to 20 per cent of his sales, was the only person in Grimethorpe who told The Times that he voted Remain. It almost sounded like a confession. His name was Parimal Odedara and he happened to be visiting for the day. He lives in Leicester.
Ms Priestley's friend, 22-year-old Jessica Kearford, has a son aged four. She was told that there was no available place for him at the nursery school 100 yards from her home, where there were "lots of Polish children". Ms Kearford's son was instead offered a nursery place in a neighbouring village. She is awaiting the outcome of her appeal against the local authority's decision.
"Why's my son not allowed to go to that school? Why are Polish children getting places that British kids don't get? It's like they've got more rights than us. Say something about it and you're classed as racist, but we're not. It's about equal rights. They're getting more than us."
Both women voted proudly for Brexit. Ms Kearford spent referendum day telling "everyone I saw, at least 50 family and friends, to make sure they got themselves down to that polling station to vote Out".
Perceived injustice breeds resentment and tension. Locals spoke of foreigners "breeding like rabbits", living 30 to a house, "walking around with no respect for others". A 19-yearold man who voted Leave gave a twoword explanation: "The Polish."
One Polish woman, 23, said she could "feel the hostility of English people whenever I pick up my son" from his primary school. Four of the 42 children in his class are Poles. The young woman, too scared to give her name, lives in Grimethorpe with her British boyfriend. They have bought a house in the village. Her mother and sister live ten miles away in Wakefield.
"Everyone thinks Polish people come here to take their jobs, or that we're all on benefits, but we work really hard for everything. We pay tax here and spend money here, but now we're all worried that we're going to be sent back. I earn the same here in one week, £200-£300, as I could earn in a month in Poland."
At the working men's club, a five-minute downhill stroll from the chippy, the wake for a former NUM official was in full swing. Johnny Wood, 58, a former miner who is now a postman, said that displays of xenophobia were a regrettable consequence of "the undermining of local communities".
"When the pit closed, I saw grown men crying. They didn't know where to turn or what to do. When I come into the village today and see all those [industrial] units, I get a bit angry. They're bringing in people from other countries and actually going to those countries to recruit. They know full well they'll work for next to nothing."
Noting that the eastern European arrivals were as white as their Grimethorpe-born neighbours, Mr Wood suggested that if the British locals were black "you'd all be holding up the race card and saying we were victims of discrimination, and rightly so". Until the last moment, he had intended to vote Remain "to protect union rights" but finally decided that "we've got to vote Out to control 'us own country". Of those he spoke to on his postal round during the referendum campaign, "out of 70 or 80 there were only two people who said they were voting for Remain".
Anti-EU hostility was not confined to Grimethorpe. In Barnsley, the official Labour Remain campaign cancelled a scheduled street stall in the town centre on the day before the vote. It was felt to be too dangerous.
Jonny Walker, a pro-Remain busker and Labour activist who defied warnings to stay away from Barnsley on the same day, said he was advised by organisers that "people's safety couldn't be guaranteed".
"The day before, an elderly man had been punched while handing out Remain literature. I thought we shouldn't let fear win, so I turned up with my busking gear, a lot of leaflets and a big 'Labour In For Britain' poster. The atmosphere was really hostile.
"People told me I had a nerve, coming to their town. They started talking to street wardens, trying to move me on. One angry woman in her 40s came up, took the poster, tore it up and threw it in the bin. Another woman told me to f*** off. She said I wasn't welcome."
Might Ukip mirror the SNP's conquest of Labour in Scotland by persuading the party's northern strongholds to desert en masse, lured by a simplistic but seductive mantra of anti-elitism and anti-immigration? Steven Woolfe, odds-on favourite to become the party's next leader, called last week on the party to "go ruthlessly after Labour seats in the north and the Midlands".
In Grimethorpe, opinion among lifelong Labour voters was divided. Mr Wood thought that the referendum result was a one-off howl of outrage from people who would probably return to the Labour fold at a general election, though he admitted that he was a lot less certain of such tribal loyalties than he would have been 20 years ago.
A 68-year-old man who would not give his name, but who said he worked at the colliery for 23 years and has lived in the village since the days "when no one locked their front doors", was far more doubtful.
"There's an old saying in Yorkshire, cock. Tha' can put a donkey up for Labour and they'll get in. We've always been staunch Labour here, but Nigel Farage was right. We don't want any more immigrants. That's what swung the referendum.
"Jeremy Corbyn will never lead Labour into power. We've got lads and lasses finishing college who end up flipping burgers 'cos there's no work for them, while Poles come over here and walk straight into a job. Why don't Labour and Ukip put themselves together and form a proper party?"
Graphic
Johnny Wood, a former miner, said that he intended to vote Remain but changed his mind at the last minute. Many in Grimethorpe feel betrayed by system that they claim gives immigrants priority for jobs and school places, despite £165 million of investment in the village. Labour voters fear that Ukip could make gains with its mantra of anti-elitism Grimethorpe's colliery closed in 1993 despite local protests. The regeneration that followed brought Polish workers and, to the anger of some residents, Polish products in the shops, inset left Brassed Off, starring Ewan McGregor, was all-too accurate


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (79%); LEEDS, ENGLAND (77%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ROMANIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               453 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK economy shrank in July as Brexit vote hit sentiment

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 518 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Colm Kelpie THE UK economy is shrinking at a pace not seen since early 2009, according to one of the broadest gauges of business activity since the Brexit vote.
Output and new orders both fell for the first time since the end of 2012, while optimism among companies slumped to a seven-year low, according to the flash purchasing managers' index compiled by financial information firm Markit.
Markit chief economist Chris Williamson attributed the fall to the vote in the UK to pull out of the European Union.
"July saw a dramatic deterioration in the economy, with business activity slumping at the fastest race since the height of the financial crisis in early 2009," Mr Williamson said.
"The one ray of light was an improvement in manufacturing export growth to the best for two years as the weak pound helped drive overseas sales, though producers also suffered the flip side of a weak currency as import prices spiked higher."
Businesses in Ireland fear a shrinking economy in the UK will have a knock-on effect here.
The growth outlook for the Irish economy has already been downgraded by a number of organisations including Deutsche Bank and Cantor Fitzgerald.
The Central Bank has also been revising its own forecasts, and will publish updated projections next week in its latest economic commentary.
Bank of Ireland yesterday said it had downgraded Irish growth for this year to 4.3pc from 5pc, and next year to 3pc from 4pc.
"The combination of a weaker pound, increased uncertainty and slower UK growth is expected to dampen Irish exports, and also weigh on confidence," said Dr Loretta O'Sullivan, 'July saw a dramatic deterioration in the economy with activity slumping' group chief economist. "At the same time, growth in our other trading partners and previous competitiveness gains should provide some support," Dr O'Sullivan said.
"At home, the domestic economy is set to benefit from further investment, sustained consumer spending and an improving labour market.
"The unemployment rate is now at a seven-year low and, with employment growth expected to continue over the forecast horizon, could fall below 7pc by the end of next year." The flash, or preliminary, Markit survey of purchasing managers - executives who make spending decisions at 1,250 big firms - fell by the most in its 20-year history.
It was consistent with an economy contracting 0.4pc in the third quarter, contrasting with an actual reading of plus 0.4pc in the first quarter.
The readout, little more than a week after UK Prime Minister Theresa May formed a new Conservative government, indicates the challenge she faces to maintain market and investor confidence as she embarks on what promise to be long and difficult Brexit www.talks.UK Chancellor Philip Hammond played down the purchasing manager surveys as measure of sentiment, not of "hard activity", but also said he would act to support the economy when he announces his budget plans later in the year.
"Exactly what that framework looks like will depend on the state of the economy at the time of the autumn (budget) statement," he told Sky News. (Additional reporting Reuters)


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               454 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK economy wilting fast after Brexit vote, PMI index shows

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 452 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's economy appears to be shrinking at the fastest rate since the financial crisis in the wake of last month's Brexit vote, according to a business activity index that posted the biggest drop in its 20-year history.
An early edition of Markit's purchasing managers' indices (PMI) showed the services sector - one of the few drivers of British economic growth - has been hit especially hard by the vote to leave the European Union, with orders plunging and confidence crumbling.
The PMI for the services sector fell to 47.4 in July from 52.3 in June, the steepest drop since records began in 1996 and the worst reading since March 2009, around the low point of the global economic recession. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a much smaller fall, to 49.2.
The evidence of a sharp drop in business activity across a broad swathe of Britain's economy may alarm the Bank of England, which is trying to decide how aggressively it needs to act to cushion the shock of the referendum vote.
"This is the first major survey showing the pace of activity through the economy and it is soft. Taken literally it would imply a period of contraction in the economy," Investec analyst Philip Shaw said. 
"It might be a little bit early to draw firm conclusions but it certainly looks as though the second half of the year will be weaker than the first."
Euro-zone growth 
Separate figures show that euro-zone growth may be lower than previously expected, primarily due to the effects of Britain's vote, the European Central Bank's survey of professional forecasters showed yesterday.  
Growth is now forecast at 1.4 per cent next year, below an earlier projection of 1.6 per cent, while the 2018 estimate was cut to 1.6 per cent from 1.7 per cent, the quarterly survey of 51 forecasters showed. 
For 2016, the GDP growth projection was unchanged at 1.5 per cent.
The BoE's own research, published on Wednesday along with some other surveys, had pointed to a big rise in uncertainty in the economy, but a relatively limited drop in activity.
Markit's figures are one-off "flash" versions of its monthly surveys. They are based on 85 per cent of the normal number of responses, collected from July 12th to July 21st to capture sentiment after the Brexit vote. Markit will update the figures early next month.
Markit said that if the PMIs stayed at these levels, they would be consistent with the economy shrinking at a quarterly pace of 0.4 per cent, a rate of decline not seen since the 2008-2009 recession.
The manufacturing PMI fell to 49.1 from 52.1 in June, the lowest since February 2013.
The composite index, which combines services and manufacturing, slumped to 4(Reuters)7.7 from 52.4, the weakest reading since April 2009.- 


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               455 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK jobless below 5% before Brexit vote; EMPLOYMENT

BYLINE: Sarah O'Connor

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 81 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: UK unemployment fell below 5 per cent for the first time in 11 years shortly before the EU referendum.
Official data show unemployment at 4.9 per cent, the employment rate at a record high of 74.4 per cent and inactivity at record lows. These are signs of a robust labour market, though wage growth remains weak. Paul Hollingsworth, an economist at Capital Economics, said the data would not stop the Bank of England from taking measures to stimulate the economy next month. Sarah O'Connor 


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               456 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 23, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Wider implications of Brexit for Ireland

BYLINE: Paul Gillespie

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 771 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: That Northern Ireland's future in the United Kingdom is subject to Brexit's constitutional logic has this week come squarely on to Ireland's mainstream political agenda. Micheál Martin and then Enda Kenny said they would support an Irish reunification referendum under certain conditions. 
This is an important shift of attitude, since the Border poll issue has been monopolised by Sinn Féin and discussion of reunification resisted by other parties as unrealistic or undesirable. It should now get the wider debate and research it deserves.
The UK's dual sovereignty question links EU membership to its own integrity as a united state. After the decision to leave the EU that decisional logic assumes crisis proportions since it embraces Northern Ireland and Scotland, whose votes to remain were overridden by an English majority. 
Speaking at the MacGill Summer School, Martin said a Border poll should happen if support for the EU Remain option shifts Northern opinion towards reunification; but he acknowledged the only evidence so far is that the majority there "wants to maintain open borders and a single market with this jurisdiction and beyond that with the rest of Europe". 
Preserving those very substantial rights against more closed visions of Brexit is a major challenge. It was taken up the next day by Kenny in his remarks at the school. He said in his prepared speech that "the closer the UK is to the EU the better for all of us, and above all, for Ireland". If that is not what emerges from the British debate, he later told journalists, Ireland must prepare for a shift of view in the North towards Irish unity by ensuring Northern Ireland could be absorbed into the EU like East Germany was in 1990-91 rather than through a "tortuous and long process" of separate application. 
Unique role
 This European context of possible reunification plays into the special or unique role the Northern Ireland peace process has in that setting, according to Irish diplomats. Kenny stressed this aspect with Angela Merkel and François Hollande. 
Judging his remarks only by the competitive logic of domestic politics - whether with Sinn Féin or Fianna Fáil - underestimates the dual sovereignty question Ireland also faces over European integration and national reunification. Its logic could play out much more rapidly than is presently imagined or desired, according to the dynamics Lenin observed in 1917: "There are decades when nothing happens, and there are weeks when decades happen." We are arguably living through such an accelerated time period in international affairs. In that perspective, it is high time these wider implications of Brexit for Ireland were brought out into the open. 
Realistic evaluation
 Sinn F
éin's cack-handed call for an immediate Border poll after the Brexit referendum certainly deserved the criticisms it got from other nationalists and unionists, based on a realistic evaluation of recent polling in the North which decisively rejects Irish unity. Martin and Kenny's case is more long-term, anticipating a possible decisive shift in unionist attitudes confronted with a certain Brexit scenario linked to UK break-up. 
Sinn Féin's own evolution from a sceptical sovereigntist opposition to the EU towards a left-critical stance, accepting it with a different form and policies, is more significant than its reversion to slogans about unity. It has yet to come to terms with the possibility that a united Ireland is more likely to arise from wider British and European tensions than from purely Irish ones. And its hopes to supplant Fianna Fáil in the last election were frustrated by Micheál Martin's determination not to allow that to happen. Thus the supplanting of the Civil War political cleavage by a new left-right one has not occurred. Irish politics remains polarised around the two main centrist parties.
The UK crisis may not be resolved by break-up. It may alternatively hold together in a new federalised fashion, linked more closely to the EU than many Brexiteers want. Ireland must live with whatever outcome emerges. Irish policymaking should not accept that passively but should seek to shape it according to Irish interests. These are contested politically between those who want closer or looser European integration, a more social or a more neoliberal EU.
Inescapably, too, such choices involve Irish attitudes to the UK and a united Ireland. They need to be researched and debated much more than they have been, perhaps along the lines of the New Ireland Forum in 1984. In that perspective, this week's remarks by Martin and Kenny should be welcomed.
 pegillespie@gmail.com


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); GERMANY (72%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               457 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 24, 2016 Sunday 1:59 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit offers key opportunity to reboot UK economy; Britain urgently needs a version of Abenomics, involving monetary policy, fiscal policy and structural reform

BYLINE: Larry Elliott

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1118 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: After years of sitting on its hands, the Bank of England will swing back into action next month with measures to nurse the economy through the post-Brexit period. Interest rates will be cut from their already historic low of 0.5%. The Bank is considering pumping more electronic money into the economy and could ease credit conditions.
The Treasury is also gearing up to provide stimulus measures. Now that George Osborne's plan to balance the budget by the end of this parliament has been ditched, there is scope for Philip Hammond to be more creative in his autumn statement later this year. He has already dropped the broadest of hints that he will seize this opportunity.
One benefit of Brexit  is that it allows the economy to be rebooted. That is true after any severe economic shock, which certainly applies to the decision to leave the EU. The last time UK policymakers had the chance to implement root and branch cures to the economy's structural weaknesses was during the financial and economic crisis of 2008-09. Instead they bottled it, relying almost wholly on the Bank of England to support activity through interest rate cuts and the money-creation programme known as quantitative easing (QE). 
This was later backed up by Funding for Lending, under which the Bank provided incentives for high street banks to lend more to households and businesses. The impact of all this was to rekindle the housing market and drive up asset prices. There was a boost to the economy, but the benefits were mostly felt by the haves rather than the have-nots. It was business as usual rather than change of the sort seen, for example, after the Great Depression of the 1930s or the oil shocks of the 1970s. 
 Related:  UK business must wait longer for post-Brexit Bank of England boost
What was needed then, and is even more urgently needed now, is a more comprehensive approach. Britain needs a version of Abenomics, the three-arrow strategy named after Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, which involves monetary policy, fiscal policy and structural reform.
Let's take those in turn. Monetary policy is the Bank of England's job. It embraces setting the official cost of borrowing, buying bonds from banks in exchange for cash to increase the supply of money, and programmes such as Funding for Lending.
The advantage of monetary policy is that it is the quickest way of stimulating activity, which is why the Bank is the first line of defence against a post-Brexit recession. But apart from sending out the message that Threadneedle Street has a steady hand on the tiller, it is not obvious why easier monetary policy should have a marked effect on the economy. Interest rates have been at 0.5% for more than seven years, so cutting them to 0.25% or even 0% is not going to do much. Likewise with another £50bn worth of QE, on top of the £375bn that was pumped into the economy during the Great Recession, and the years that followed.
Fiscal policy is the Treasury's job. It is a posh way of describing changes to tax and public spending. When the economy was floundering after the collapse of Lehman Brothers  in September 2008, Alastair Darling cut VAT and brought forward infrastructure projects to raise demand. For the most part though, the Treasury has preferred to let the Bank of England do the heavy lifting. Monetary policy has been loose; fiscal policy has been tight.
The justification for the conservative approach to fiscal policy has been that the Great Recession left the UK's public finances in a heck of a mess. There are two measures of a nation's financial health; the budget deficit, which looks at the difference between tax receipts and spending in any one year, and the national debt, which is an accumulation of all the deficits (and rare surpluses) over time. Britain's budget deficit hit a peacetime record during the Great Recession, while the national debt more than doubled.
Structural reform involves the nitty-gritty stuff that makes the economy work more effectively: whether children have the right sort of education so that they can find decent employment; the state of the country's infrastructure; the ease with which an entrepreneur with a good idea can find long-term finance. In the 1980s, there was a tendency to equate structural reform with smashing the trade unions and privatising the nationalised industries. Real structural reform goes deeper and requires something that has typically been in short supply in Britain: patience.
Indeed, the tendency has always been for the quick fix, the misguided belief that there is an instant remedy for problems that have been quietly but destructively festering over many decades.
These longstanding problems - the hollowing out of manufacturing, the concomitant overreliance on the City, a large and growing trade deficit, big regional differentials in productivity - have been given a political manifestation by Brexit. There was a strong link between voting patterns and the health of the local economy.
So what needs to be done? Despite the likely lack of any real traction, the Bank of England needs to ease monetary policy aggressively on 4 August. This will help boost confidence and might prevent the economy sliding into recession in the second half of the year.
Hammond has apparently given some licence by the prime minister to be radical with fiscal policy and should use it. Investment by the private sector has been weak since the Great Recession and is likely to be even weaker in the aftermath of Brexit. The government, therefore, needs to fill the gap.
There are two ways of doing this. The first involves the Treasury taking advantage of low interest rates to borrow for long-term investment. Not just in roads, railways and airports but in Britain's digital infrastructure and its human capital. One of the country's most glaring structural weaknesses is that the unemployment rate for young people who leave school with the most basic education is among the highest in the developed world.
An alternative approach would be to harmonise the activities of the Treasury and Bank of England, with the former issuing infrastructure bonds and the latter buying them up through its QE programme. This idea was floated by the Green New Deal group (of which I am a member) after the Great Recession, proposing a major programme of housebuilding and energy efficiency involving jobs for every UK constituency.
Jeremy Corbyn latched on to this idea, calling it People's QE, when he was running for the Labour leadership, but he now appears less keen. This is a bit curious. A Green New Deal or People's QE is something governments need to have up their sleeve when times get tough and they have run out of alternatives. Like now. 


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               458 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 24, 2016 Sunday 4:43 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK banks prepare response to expected interest rate cut; Lloyds among high street operators facing pressures sparked by Brexit vote, which could lead to further job cuts and closures

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 643 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: High street banks are preparing to set out how they will respond to the interest rate cuts likely to be sparked by the Brexit vote, amid expectations it could pressure them to cut jobs and earmark more branches for closure.
Lloyds Banking Group, in which taxpayers have a 9% stake, is facing questions from the City about any plans to step up its cost-cutting measures. This is because it is more closely linked to the UK economy than rivals with international operations. 
The bank has embarked on a programme to cut £1bn from costs in the three years to 2017, which already involves 9,000 job cuts and 200 branch closures. There are expectations that this will be accelerated. 
The bailed-out bank is among a number of high street banks reporting their results this week. Barclays and Virgin Money are also publishing their six-month figures at a time when bank share prices have been pummelled in the wake of the vote to leave the EU. The following week HSBC, Standard Chartered and the 73% taxpayer-owned Royal Bank of Scotland will report their trading for the first six months of 2016. 
But analysts are more interested in banks' reaction to the EU vote, which could have a dramatic impact on the domestically focused banks if the economy slows and bad debts - or impairment charges - rise. Expectations are also mounting that the Bank of England will cut interest rates from an already historic low of 0.5% on 4 August, which will put pressure on bank profits.
Analysts at Morgan Stanley said: "We think the focus will be updates to guidance for core UK earnings post-referendum. We cut domestic UK banking earnings [by approximately] 20% post the vote as we expect margin pressure, lower loan growth and normalisation in impairment trends."
 Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital, said it would be difficult for banks to provide a clear outlook statement. "We might get more announcements around cost-cutting," he said. "The reasons why Lloyds could be aggressive on costs is their margins are being squeezed on low interest rates."
 Some 45,000 roles had already gone at Lloyds since HBOS was rescued in 2008, before the latest round of cuts, and the workforce has fallen to around 75,000. In February, at the time of its results for 2015, Lloyds said it was ahead of its October 2014 plan to cut costs but provided no further detail.
Analysts will be waiting to see if António Horta-Osório, the chief executive, can decide how to wring further costs out of the business, which also owns Halifax. Lloyds would not comment on expectations of cost-cutting measures. 
Analysts at Deutsche Bank: "Given the more difficult revenue environment we expect questions to management on potential further cost rationalisation." 
The government has put on hold its plans to sell shares to the public and the views of the chancellor, Philip Hammond, on such a share offering are unclear. Its shares closed on Friday at 55.5p - below the 73.6p at which taxpayers break even on their stake - and amid expectations that plans for major dividends could be delayed.
At Barclays, which will report on Friday, its new chief executive, Jes Staley, will face questions about the bank's growth prospects and progress on selling its African arm.
 It is a crunch week for banks across Europe as the results of stress tests on EU banks, including those in the UK, are published by the pan-European banking regulator on Friday. 
The European Banking Authority is not issuing a pass or fail on the results, which are being announced while the focus is on Italian banks and the possibility they will need to raise more capital. 
Analysts at Credit Suisse said that a "shallow recession is already priced in" for bank shares on stock markets across Europe. They added: "The EBA test could be a positive market event, showing sector has improved its ability to withstand economic shocks." 


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               459 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 3:09 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What can aid workers do to heal tensions in a post-Brexit vote world?; Sheffield-based social enterprise Aid Works is taking practical steps to break down the divisions in Brexit Britain by engaging northerners in development

BYLINE: Mo and Mia Ali

SECTION: GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT PROFESSIONALS NETWORK

LENGTH: 946 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: While there were many reasons behind the UK's historic vote to leave the EU, one of the key aspects of the successful leave campaign was its negative stance towards immigration. And this wasn't confined to the movement of European citizens - from Ukip's infamous "breaking point" poster to media interviews with members of the voting public, migrants and refugees from other parts of the world (such as Syria) were also targeted.
Voters from both sides of the referendum debate were troubled by the anti-immigration rhetoric, and rightly so: in the aftermath of Brexit, the National Police Chiefs' Council has recorded a 42% increase in the national reporting of hate crime, while thinktank Demos has reported a significant increase in xenophobic tweets since the referendum.
Those of us interested in international development have much to worry about, not least the impact of the falling pound on aid budgets, the future of EU funding and the outlook for the Department for International Development under Priti Patel. To most of us, these issues and the workings of Whitehall seem distant and beyond our influence, but is there anything that we can do to improve the situation at a grassroots level? We think there is.
Aid Works is a social enterprise based in Sheffield founded by two British aid workers. As well as supporting overseas programmes, we are passionate about harnessing the talent of people in the north of England, and sharing it with the global south via our Get the North to the South programme. Our base in Yorkshire provides opportunities for northerners who may not be able to access relevant information, jobs and training, traditionally focused in London.
The referendum has shone a light on huge differences in public opinion regarding the UK's place in the world
A key part of the project is education. We run information events for the general public, training courses for aspiring aid workers and we go into schools. Children are asked to debate current aid-related headlines, complete a rapid needs assessment in a fictional refugee crisis and decide how to distribute UK government funding to respond to the crisis. Within the simulation they learn about the different roles of the UK government, aid agencies and the host government in an emergency. 
Post-Brexit vote, the need for this kind of grassroots work has never been greater. The referendum has shone a light on huge differences in public opinion regarding the UK's place in the world and its responsibility towards other nations. Both sides of the referendum campaign were characterised by misinformation and negative propaganda, and it is clear that straightforward, honest information sharing is needed to provide a platform for informed debate. Duncan Green, strategic adviser for Oxfam GB and author of  From Poverty to Power blog, asks if it would be "better to pull back from the day to day trench warfare of Whitehall and go long term, working with youth, investing more in development education, working on public attitudes to race and 'Otherness'?". We say a resounding, Yes! 
 Related:  Brexit was a backlash against globalisation - the poorest are being left behind everywhere
Not only would this go some way towards healing the racial tensions experienced both before and after Brexit, but it will also protect the UK's commitment to spend 0.7% of its gross national income on aid every year. While this commitment is enshrined in law, it has recently been challenged by some Tory MPs, including Liam Fox, the new secretary of state for international trade. If the UK economy falters, the pressure on public finances will increase.
This week we conducted a quick straw poll in the centre of Sheffield, asking 69 members of the general public what percentage of the UK's budget is spent on overseas development. Over 85% overestimated the amount that we spend on aid, with almost one in five thinking we spend more than 50%. 
Some politicians and media outlets have capitalised on this confusion, with a recent petition by the Mail on Sunday to "End the £12bn foreign aid madness" garnering almost quarter of a million signatures, and leading to a debate in parliament. 
 Related:  Brexit: 'Finally! UK aid workers will understand what political instability really feels like'
The Mail on Sunday claimed that "much of this money is wasted and the Great British Giveaway fuels corruption, funds despots and corrodes democracy in developing nations". There is no denying that some aid money is lost to corruption, poor programming and inefficiency. But donors and aid agencies work very hard to prevent this happening, with many instances discovered and reported by the agencies themselves. 
Aid Works participated in the Change the Record campaign, led by Bond - the UK membership body for organisations working in international development. The campaign highlighted the importance of engaging not just those who already share your opinions (step away from your Facebook timeline), but those of different persuasions. It underlined the need to tackle issues such as corruption head on, and to present clear and honest accounts of how aid can be successful.
Current events may seem out of our control - but there are practical things we can all do at a grassroots level to affect change. 
                     Mo and Mia Ali are the founders of Aid Works.                     Follow @Aid_Works on Twitter.                    
                                            Join our community                      of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow                                            @GuardianGDP                                           on Twitter.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ENGLAND (71%); SYRIA (55%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               460 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Activist hedge funds hunt for Brexit bargains; THE LAST WORD

BYLINE: Owen Walker

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 666 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Throughout the morning of June 24, the currency and equity markets went haywire as investors around the world tried to capitalise on the chaos created by the UK's shock decision to leave the EU. But one niche category of hedge funds, activist investors, could turn out to be the long-term winners from Brexit .
Several household-name British companies have been targeted by activists since last month's vote. While these moves are not directly related to the referendum result, the Brexit fallout will make UK companies more vulnerable to activist attacks in the coming years.
Activist hedge funds - which focused not only on investing in companies where they expect significant change, but also on being the agent of that disruption - will be on the lookout for ways to profit from the disquiet the UK is set to endure as its relationship with the rest of Europe and the world is redefined. British companies dealing with these seismic changes would do well to prepare for an activist on their shareholder register.
The fall of the pound to the dollar and euro since the referendum has meant that British companies are now much cheaper for foreign investors.
At the same time, the FTSE 250 - whose constituents are mostly domestically focused, which means the index is a better indicator of the resilience of the UK economy than the more international FTSE 100 - has experienced considerable volatility. There is little to suggest these market forces will lessen in the coming years, resulting in plenty of UK buying opportunities for overseas investors.
Foreign activists have already started taking advantage of the increased vulnerability of UK companies. Shareholder Value Management, a German investor, announced a 7 per cent stake in John Menzies, the Edinburgh-based logistics company , soon after the Brexit vote. SVM joined another foreign activist, Lakestreet Capital Partners of Switzerland, in calling for John Menzies to split its aviation services from its newspaper distribution business.
Through its UK offshoot, Elliott Advisors, US hedge fund Elliott Management has revealed positions in SABMiller, the brewer , and Poundland, the discount retailer. In both cases, the target company is in the process of being bought and Elliott is pushing for better terms - a strategy common among activists and dubbed "bumpitrage". Last year Elliott's successful campaign against Alliance Trust in Dundee resulted in the hedge fund gaining two board seats and the departure of the investment trust's chairman and chief executive.
In the medium term, the response of policymakers to market uncertainty could unintentionally make British companies more attractive to activist investors. A Bank of England decision to cut to interest rates could further weaken the pound, thereby making UK companies cheaper still.
Should Philip Hammond, the new chancellor, follow his predecessor's lead and cut corporation tax in an attempt to incentivise companies to stay, the lower tax rate would make UK companies even more alluring to overseas activists.
But perhaps the most attractive feature of post-Brexit Britain for activist investors is the widespread instability UK companies will face and the tough choices their boards and executives will be forced to make. Activists thrive in such conditions.
Corporate leaders will have to decide whether to sell overseas operations, relocate teams or close underperforming business lines altogether. These will be hard and uncomfortable decisions to make, especially where large-scale job losses are involved. But where a long-term executive or director may feel ill at ease forcing through such changes, an activist investor would have no such sentimentality. The activist would also have an easier job of convincing the company's other shareholders that clinical restructuring was needed.
For the UK's boards and executives, life looks set to become a little bit harder.
Owen Walker's book on activist investing, Barbarians in the Boardroom, is released by FT Publishing


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUNDEE, SCOTLAND (78%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               461 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: After Brexit, the Labour party peers over the edge; Opinion

BYLINE: Jon Cruddas

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 648 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Supporters of Jeremy Corbyn , leader of the Labour party , often compare him to the great radical interwar Labour leader George Lansbury. But this comparison does not help him today.
On a collision course with his parliamentary party over intervention in Abyssinia, Lansbury offered his resignation. Yet so loved was he by his parliamentary colleagues that they refused to let him go before eventually conceding. Unlike Mr Corbyn, Lansbury knew his pacifist beliefs would prove irreconcilable with leading the party and the need for support of Westminster representatives in a parliamentary democracy.
It has never before been the case that a Labour leader has dismissed a vote by his parliamentary party as of no "constitutional legitimacy", as Mr Corbyn did after he lost a no-confidence motion on June 28. Nor has Labour in the House of Lords ever before announced its independence from the leader.
Labour is in uncharted waters and, as it faces a leadership election pitting Mr Corbyn against Owen Smith , the form of its future existence is uncertain. For those of us who believe a broad-based Labour party has been a blessing to our country, this is a time of great peril.
The vote for Brexit was an English working-class insurrection. It challenged Labour on how it engages with a dispossessed, abandoned and often despised tribe that created the party. There has been a rupture of trust between working-class values and culture and the dominant liberalism that holds sway in the Labour debate. It is telling that as the working class reasserted the primacy of parliament by voting to Leave, Mr Corbyn claimed that sovereignty resides with the membership and not the parliamentary party.
Corbynism is essentially a liberationist hard-left politics that recognises no borders, bolted on to a tech-savvy middle-class protest movement. It is not too dissimilar to the remote liberalism of Blairism. Both are heavily economistic - as was the Remain campaign. Both disregard relationships and place, earning and belonging in favour of a kind of universalist proceduralism.
The former leader of the UK Independence party, Nigel Farage , knew this better than most. His extraordinary political project caught alight in January 2014 when he started to talk about there being "some things that matter more than money". This echoed Robert F Kennedy's line about how emphasis on GDP measures everything apart from what is important in life.
The biggest threat to Labour is the kind of post-Ukip workers' party being considered by Arron Banks, co-founder of the Leave. EU campaign. The Conservatives understand this, too. That is why Prime Minister Theresa May has focused Tory messaging on the "battlers": struggling working-class families.
On the left, if Mr Corbyn holds on to the Labour leadership, we will hear talk from some of the defeated about a new liberal centre grouping that represents the 48 per cent who voted Remain in the referendum. And if he loses to Mr Smith, expect an anti-market party of the left to emerge. Both options would reinforce the detachment of the left from its traditional class base. Can Labour as a political tradition withstand these fractures and rediscover its character and identity? Can it rebuild trust with the estranged working class?
The US political philosopher Michael Sandel argued that for the mainstream left to survive it has to return to its foundations and offer a renewed civic patriotism rooted in a moral critique of the excesses of capitalism. Nowhere, he argues, is this happening. Both the Labour left and right tend toward the abstract, global and remote, while the British people seek renewed national solutions. We have failed to build a philosophy of the common good expressed in an optimistic and generous national story. Maybe Mr Smith will rise to that challenge. Someone had better. The writer is UK Labour MP for Dagenham and Rainham 


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               462 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Banks taking centre stage after Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 242 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: CENTRAL banks from Washington to Tokyo take centre stage next week, although policymakers are likely to remain cautious as they wait for the dust to settle from Britain's shock vote to leave the European Union.
As they wait for political reassurances and greater clarity over the likely impact of the move, central banks have mostly avoided action since the Brexit referendum, calming jittery markets with verbal assurances but leaving the burden on governments to chart a path.
Indeed, the US Federal Reserve is all but certain to keep interest rates on hold this Wednesday, acknowledging improved economic prospects but offering few hints about its next move, keen to avoid repeating its past mistake of stoking rate hike expectations.
The next move is still seen as an increase in rates. But even as concerns over Brexit ease the US election is drawing closer, likely pushing back action towards the end of the year and possibly limiting the Fed to a single hike in 2016, a far cry from its early-year estimate for four moves. Analysts polled by Reuters also see the next move in the fourth quarter, while futures imply a move closer to mid-2017.
For the Bank of Japan, struggling with low inflation, next Friday's rate decision will be a close call - with markets simmering with speculation that it will have to ease policy.
It is likely to cut its inflation forecasts but only slightly, which may allow the bank to justify 'standing pat' for the time being.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               463 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Border delays 'not punishment for Brexit'

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 282 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: British holidaymakers stuck in traffic jams leading to Dover are not being punished by the French because of Brexit, a senior Tory insisted yesterday.
Patrick McLoughlin, the Conservative party chairman, said it was unacceptable that tourists had been "left in the lurch" by the lack of French border control staff. He dismissed claims by some of the trapped motorists that the French authorities were taking revenge on British holidaymakers because the vote to leave the EU. "To the French and to us, tourism is a very important industry and nobody wants to see people starting their holidays getting frustrated in the way that they are and held up," he told The Andrew Marr Show on BBC One.
"I know there have been discussions between our government and the French government to make sure that we try and ease the situation as much as we possibly can."
Andrew Bridgen, Tory MP for North West Leicestershire, questioned why France had increased the checks at Dover. "If it's a reaction to Brexit, which I hope it's not, it is a strange thing to do to damage their tourism industry as a response a democratic decision by the British people," he said.
Charlie Elphicke, the Conservative MP for Dover and Deal, called on the Home Office and the Department for Transport to apologise to the holidaymakers for failing to act.
A spokeswoman for the Home Office said that British officials had stepped into help the French examine vehicles but could not become involved with passport checks. France has been under a state of emergency with increased border checks since the Paris terror attacks which left 130 people dead. The emergency was extended after the Nice attack in which 84 people were killed.
Graphic
There was fuming over the white cliffs of Dover as drivers and holidaymakers waited for hours to reach the ferry port


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               464 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Border delays 'not punishment for Brexit'

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 284 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: holidaymakers stuck in traffic leading to Dover are not punished by the French because of Brexit, a senior Conservative insisted yesterday.
w Patrick McLoughlin, chairman of the Conservative Party, said it was unacceptable that tourists had been left in the lurch by the lack of French border control staff.
l He dismissed claims by some of the trapped motorists that the French authorities were taking revenge on British holidaymakers because of the vote to leave the European Union.
"To the French and to us, tourism is a very important industry and nobody wants to see people starting their holidays getting frustrated in the way that they are and held up," he told The Andrew Marr Show on BBC One.
"I know there have been discussions between our government and the French government to make sure that we try to ease the situation as much as we possibly can."
Andrew Bridgen, Tory MP for North West Leicestershire, questioned why France had increased the checks at Dover. "If it's a reaction to Brexit, which I hope it's not, it is a strange thing to do to damage their tourism industry as a response to a democratic decision by the British people," he said.
Charlie Elphicke, the Conservative MP for Dover & Deal, called on the Home Office and the Department for Transport to apologise to the holidaymakers for failing to act.
A spokeswoman for the Home Office said that British officials had stepped in to help the French to examine vehicles but could not become involved with passport checks. France has been under a state of emergency with increased border checks since the Paris terrorist attacks in which 130 people died. The emergency was extended after the Nice attack in which 84 people were killed.
Graphic
There was fuming over the white cliffs of Dover as drivers and holidaymakers waited for hours to reach the ferry port


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               465 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit bind; Letters to the Editor

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 56 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, David Cockerham is naive to think that David Cameron could somehow bind the entire population not to challenge the Brexit vote (letters, July 23). If the result had gone the other way, does anyone seriously believe that the prominent Brexiteers would have meekly given up a cause they had pursued for decades? graham smith London SW4


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               466 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit jitters affecting Irish energy prices

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 269 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Dearbhail McDonald WHOLESALE gas prices are down 35pc on average in July 2016 compared with July 2015, according to Vayu Energy's latest Wholesale Energy Market Report, with Brexit and a weaker pound having an impact on gas prices.
There has been a 27pc decrease on Irish wholesale electricity prices in July compared to the same period last year, with wind energy accounting for almost a fifth of overall electricity generation so far in July. Wholesale gas prices are down 7pc compared to last month, mainly due to the strength of the euro against sterling, according to Gillian Lawler, Senior Energy Analyst at Vayu.
"The market reaction to Brexit continued to be felt in early July on gas prices for delivery to year end, as the pound continued its poor performance against the euro," said Ms Lawler.
"Traders were anxious to mitigate currency risk amid the uncertainty surrounding the UK's vote to leave the EU".
Separately, Bord Na Mona has recorded a 6pc increase in its turnover, from (EURO)406.7m to (EURO)432.8m last year.
Chairman John Horgan, who launches its annual report today, said that 2015 had been "another year of solid achievement" for the 82-yearold company.
Mr Horgan said that the company has diversified significantly away from being an exclusively peat-based company, with sales of its Mountlucas and Bruckana wind farms increasing by (EURO)13.8m in the first full year of operations.
Waste treatment sales at the Drehid facility increased by some (EURO)9.3m.
The company saw reduced sales, by (EURO)4.7m, by its Edenderry Power Plant, which exited the Public Service Obligation (PSO) last December.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               467 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit puts third of office deals in doubt; Property

BYLINE: Judith Evans

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 414 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A third of commercial property deals under way at the time of the EU referendum have collapsed or are under renegotiation, but the majority are going ahead as planned.
A series of high-profile deals fell through in the immediate aftermath of the vote to leave the EU. These included the expected £465m purchase of Cannon Place, a 389,000 sq ft City of London office scheme, by Germany's Union Investment, which had been in advanced talks to buy the building.
However, 64 per cent of deals - when measured by the value of assets involved - are proceeding as normal, according to Cushman & Wakefield, a property agency that tracked £8bn of deals in progress at the time of the June 23 vote.
"The Brexit vote unfurled a high degree of short-term uncertainty, but as the dust settled, a lot of people came back to vendors and said 'We're going to try and chip your price by 10 per cent'," said Jason Winfield, head of investment at Cushman & Wakefield.
"Most of those vendors are saying 'No, we don't think the fundamentals have changed'. Many commentators were expecting this to be much worse than it actually is."
Commercial property was one of the sectors most immediately affected by the Brexit vote, as retail property funds holding more than £15bn of assets were forced to suspend trading when investors rushed to make withdrawals. Investment into the sector was already depressed in the run-up to the vote.
Further ahead, there are still concerns that the vote will cut into pricing, while Land Securities, the UK's largest listed property company, has warned of "subdued" demand from occupiers.
The Cushman data, which is mainly focused on offices and shopping centre deals, shows a fall-through rate higher than the normal 5 to 10 per cent, said Mr Winfield.
The failure rate was higher in the regions, where 59 per cent of deals were going ahead, than in London, where 67 per cent were proceeding.
The market was also cheered last week by news that Wells Fargo, the US bank, had spent £300m on a new European headquarters in London.
Across the UK, 11 per cent of deals were being renegotiated or the properties had been put back on the market, while 16 per cent had been abandoned, Cushman found.
The most vulnerable deals were those involving buildings in less popular "secondary" or "tertiary" locations, or those with only a short time left on an existing lease, said Mr Winfield.
"You would expect short-term lease events and economic uncertainty to create a bit of pricing drift," he added.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GERMANY (58%); DE Germany; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               468 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit 'stampede' out of UK funds; M&G, Schroders, Fidelity and Invesco suffer billions of euros of withdrawals

BYLINE: Attracta Mooney

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: M&G, Schroders, Fidelity and Invesco suffered billions of euros of withdrawals in June as the first set of data since Britain's vote to leave the EU shows how badly UK fund houses were hurt by the result.
European investors pulled at least EUR1bn from the each of the four large investment groups, which are either based in the UK or have large hubs in the country. M&G, Schroders, Fidelity and Invesco were among the five worst-hit asset managers in June.
Ali Masarwah, director of the Europe, Middle East and Africa research team at Morningstar, which collected the data, said UK managers suffered as investors looked to cut risk, selling out of equity funds and reducing their reliance on companies expected to be hurt by the referendum result.
"The last month was all about reducing risk because of the Brexit vote. The [fund houses with the largest outflows] are British names or have a main base in the UK, and you would expect a lot of investors to exit their funds," he said.
"This was basically the stampede of nervous investors exiting these equity funds."
Morningstar's figures showed that equity funds domiciled in Europe suffered their largest redemptions last month since September 2011.
In the immediate aftermath of the UK's surprise vote to leave the EU last month, sterling fell to 30-year lows and markets tumbled. The share price of many listed asset managers in the UK also plummeted.
Mark McFee, publications editor at Mackay Williams, the research company, said: "The outflows from some of the more UK-centric groups represent an initial knee-jerk reaction to the Brexit vote.
"Although the polls were telling us the vote would be close, the result still seems to have caught markets, companies and governments off guard. The result has led to a lot of uncertainty."
America's Franklin Templeton also ranked among the five asset managers with the largest outflows in Europe last month. The investment manager, which is best known for its emerging market funds, has struggled with outflows for more than a year.
Henderson Global Investors, another UK-based fund house, had the sixth-largest outflows, after suffering redemptions of more than EUR1bn from its European mutual funds during June, according to Morningstar.
Henderson was one of eight UK-based asset managers to suspend redemptions from its property funds as investors rushed to withdraw money following the Brexit vote.
Morningstar's figures include open-ended funds, which are often used by retail investors, and exchange traded funds.
Analysts said the outflow picture is likely to get worse, as institutional investors such as pension funds pull money from UK managers over the coming months.
Peter Lenardos, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, the investment bank, said that in addition to negative retail flows, it is also likely that institutional investors will delay transferring money they have already promised to asset managers.
A survey of 45 European fund selectors, including investment consultants, family offices and funds of fund managers, shows that many investors are concerned about whether UK managers will face restrictions when selling funds in Europe once Britain leaves the EU.
Sixty per cent of those polled by Accelerando Associates, the research company, said they expect to sell out of or reduce their exposure to UK-domiciled mutual funds known as Ucits in the wake of the Brexit vote.
Three in 10 say they will reduce their exposure to funds run by British investment houses, even if the products are domiciled outside the UK.
Philip Kalus, founder and managing partner of Accelerando Associates, said: "There is really bad news on the cards for UK asset managers."
M&G and Invesco declined to comment. Schroders and Henderson were unable to comment because of rules restricting what they are allowed to discuss ahead of their quarterly results next week.
Fidelity, which was the best-selling manager in the UK during the first quarter of 2016, according to statistics from the Pridham Report, which monitors fund sales in the UK, said: "In June, a large client made the decision to move their assets, which has had some impact on this short-term data."
Mr Lenardos said the outlook for asset managers in the UK "is not good". "In addition to a poor flow outlook, I think performance fees will remain low," he added.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (72%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               469 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: China trade deal is a Brexit opportunity, says chancellor

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain is targeting a new trade deal with China in an attempt to exploit the "opportunities" created by Brexit, Philip Hammond has revealed.
In a sign that the government is already pursuing deals to minimise the economic impact of leaving the EU, the chancellor said that he had raised the issue of an agreement with China during a meeting of world finance ministers over the weekend.
It is also a clear indication that Mr Hammond will continue the policy pursued by George Osborne of wooing Beijing. Mr Osborne received criticism from fellow Tories for "rolling out the red carpet" to a nation accused of human rights violations.
Speaking in Chengdu after a meeting of ministers from the G20 group of nations, Mr Hammond said it was "certainly appropriate" to start discussing a new deal in the next "couple of years". He also confirmed that he had raised the issue during the weekend's talks.
"The mood music that I have heard here is very much that this will mean more opportunity for countries like China that are outside the European Union to do business with Britain," Mr Hammond told the BBC. "And as Britain leaves the European Union and is not bound by the rules of the European Union, perhaps it will be easier to do deals with Britain in the future."
Mr Hammond campaigned for Britain to stay in the EU, but had previously been regarded as one of the more Eurosceptic figures in David Cameron's cabinet. While the prospect of a free trade deal with the world's second largest economy will please Brexit campaigners, it will also raise concerns in British industry of cheaper Chinese goods.
Britain's steel industry has already been hit hard by low-cost Chinese steel. However, Britain's banking and insurance industries could benefit from the lowering of trade barriers.
Mr Hammond insisted that EU nations were not in "punishment mode" with Britain as a result of the Brexit vote. He said that Britain could set out the framework of a possible trade relationship with the EU this year.
"If our EU partners respond to such a vision positively, obviously it will be subject to negotiation, but positively, so that there is a sense later this year that we're all on the same page where we expect to be going, I think that will send a reassuring signal to the business community and to markets," he said.
"What we now need to do is get on with it in a way that minimises the economic impact on the UK economy in the short term and maximises the benefit in the long term."
Chinese state media suggested this month that the Chinese administration was interested in a trade deal with the UK. Mr Hammond said that he could "definitely ... see such a thing".
Mr Hammond also insisted that the £18 billion plan for a new nuclear reactor at Hinkley Point, in Somerset, would be confirmed "hopefully over the next few days".
The project is backed by the French company EDF and one of China's main nuclear suppliers. There have been serious concerns about the project following the Brexit vote.
* +


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); CHENGDU, SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               470 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Consumer and business confidence plunges after Brexit

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 370 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Irish consumer and business sentiment has plunged in the wake of the UK's decision to quit the EU, according to a report by Bank of Ireland.
The BoI Economic Pulse fell by 10.3 points in July, to 91.2, its lowest reading so far this year, with the mood among business firms following at a faster pace than consumers. 
"Our business pulse fell sharply in July, with near-term prospects being downgrade and the fall in sterling a concern for some firms," said Loretta O'Sullivan, chief economist at the bank. 
"Over the course of the year," she added, "there has been a notable step-up in the number of service, retail and construction firms citing uncertainty as a key factor currently limiting their business."
Plunging index 
The business index fell by 11.1 points from June to 91.6 in July, with the reading among retail and construction firms plunging between 18-21.5 per cent.  
Business sectors, also including service firms and those in industry, have pared back their hiring plans for the next three months, though most still forecast growth in their business over the next one to three years. 
Nearly 40 per cent of firms in industry and services plan to increase basic pay over the next 12 months, with 35 per cent in construction and 25 per cent in retail eyeing similar moves.
The consumer index fell by 7.1 points to 89.7 in July, as householders lowered their assessment of their own financial situation, the outlook for the economy, and the pace at which unemployment levels are expected to keep falling. 
Jobless rate 
The Irish jobless rate stood at 7.8 per cent in June, unchanged from May but down from a peak of 15.1 per cent at the height of the financial crisis in 2012, according to the Central Statistics Office.  
The July surveys were carried out by Ipsos MRBI on behalf of Bank of Ireland, with 1,000 households and 2,000 businesses questioned on a range of topics. 
Meanwhile, 67 per cent of respondents said they expect house prices to continue to rise over the next 12 months, while 62 per cent saw rents increasing. 
The latest CSO data show that home prices rose by 6.9 per cent on the year in May, driven by segments of the market outside of Dublin. Prices nationally remain 35 per cent their 2007 peak. 


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (59%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               471 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Don't shoot people for creating wealth'; Jobs Minister Mary Mitchell O'Connor was supposed to take over a 'good news department' - but Brexit changed everything, writes Kevin Doyle

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 980 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: 'MONEY doesn't grow on trees. Somebody has to create wealth," says Mary Mitchell O'Connor, as she launches into a defence of people often described as 'toxic'.
The new Jobs Minister is beginning to find her stride after weeks of readjusting to life with a portfolio.
Like every TD, she had heard plenty of stories over the years about Cabinet meetings from colleagues and media leaks - but they are still not what she expected. There's no time anymore for leisurely walks on Dun Laoghaire pier and even if she worked 24 hours a day it would be impossible to keep everybody happy.
But that's what Ms Mitchell O'Connor seems to want to do.
'Think Small First' reads the handwritten sign on the printer in her Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation office across the road from Leinster House.
"Everyone talks about the massive 500 jobs announcement but you have to remember that it's also the small business owner that employs one, then two and three people," she says.
"That's the key to it, especially in rural and regional Ireland. That's why that's there. I put that there to remind myself of that all the time."
Perhaps the motivational notes shouldn't come as a surprise given Ms Mitchell O'Connor's background as a school principal.
Whether it's Brexit, the challenges facing rural towns or demands for pay increases she refuses to be negative.
"Everything has opportunities and threats. We have to make sure that we grasp the opportunities that are out there," she explains.
The Fine Gael TD argues 'MONDAY INTERVIEW 'that not enough focus is put on the small home-grown enterprises and retailers needed to breathe life into the regions, and that too much disdain is targeted at the big multinationals that employ thousands.
"Somebody has to create wealth. Then we have to share wealth and make sure all our people get a fair chance and that there is equity," she says.
"But at the same time don't shoot the person that is creating the wealth. They are not toxic. There are here. They are putting their necks on the line as well," she says.
Her appointment straight from the backbenches to such a central ministry caused some surprise in political circles but doubters concluded that with the economy recovering it would be simple enough to keep a 'good news department' on course. Today, she is expected to announce the creation of 300 new jobs in Cork, This country was on its knees. We need to be careful now. We could easily slide back...
Brexit is a reality check for all of us Kilkenny and Dublin. The Programme for Government sets a target of 200,000 new jobs by 2020, with 135,000 of them outside Dublin.
However, in the wake of the UK referendum, that task became immeasurably more difficult and Ms Mitchell O'Connor now finds herself at the centre of one of the biggest storms to ever face this country.
She insists the targets will still be achieved. There are plans for "beefed-up" trade missions to China and India. The IDA and Enterprise Ireland have engaged in major behind-the-scenes work and the Budget will offer an opportunity to entice more business to Ireland.
She flatly rejects any suggestion that the French government is being more proactive when it comes to luring financial service companies looking for a new home outside London.
Her view is that new business will be won in backrooms and boardrooms, not from putting up billboards.
"We have a competitive edge. We'll be making sure that our Budget will be helpful to potential clients that might come into the country. We'll do our work. We've been doing it for the past five to six years," she says. "We are looking at every tax measure that we can. We're looking at what is the best environment for business and FDIs coming into the country, but also for our own indigenous business and our small businesses."
The minister reveals that Enterprise Ireland is likely to get funds for extra staffing in the Budget to help indigenous companies diversify.
"This country, in 2011, when the last Fine Gael government came in, was on its knees. What we put in place was to go out there, be proactive and bring foreign direct investment into Ireland. We will continue that job," she insists.
"That's really my priority - to make sure that the IDA and Enterprise Ireland can go out and fight for jobs."
She believes many larger businesses planned for Brexit but smaller ones were not as prepared. And Ms Mitchell O'Connor says those clamouring for big pay hikes on the back of last year's economic figures should pause for thought.
"Brexit is a reality check for the whole country. It really is. We all need to be just very careful. It's only five-and-a-half short years ago that Enda Kenny came into government," she says.
"The country was on its knees. We need to be careful now. We could easily slide back. We could lose our competitive edge and you would find that the FDI companies will get that message too," she says.
"There is a balance between employers and employees. What we're pushing for is to make sure that jobs are sustainable. Please God there will be two million people employed in Ireland in the coming months and I want those jobs to be sustainable."
But many would ask whether her own job is even sustainable in a precarious minority government.
She believes Fianna Fáil must "pull on the green jersey" and help the partnership stay the course.
"I believe that they would want Ireland to do well," she says, adding that she loves her new job.
"The challenging piece is that I could work 24 hours a day. There aren't enough hours in the day. What I really find great is the wonderful people out there that I'm meeting and we never hear their voices. Let's say in retail - they employ 275,000 people. We never hear their voice."
She adds: "I try to be in the constituency on a Saturday evening and a Sunday. I really work 18, 19 hours a day. I absolutely love it. I have landed in a really proactive department."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); IRELAND (93%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               472 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: G20 has 'all tools at the ready' to support growth after Brexit

BYLINE: Harry Wilson

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 471 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The world's largest economies have pledged to use all policy tools available to kick-start flagging global growth in the wake of the Brexit vote, according to a communiqué issued by G20 finance ministers after talks in China.
They warned that Britain's decision to quit the European Union had added to uncertainty over the global economy but said that members stood ready and determined to use "all tools - monetary, fiscal and structural" to keep growth on track.
Philip Hammond, the chancellor, speaking in Chengdu, said that discussions over Brexit had been "right at the top of the agenda".
He added: "It's a new factor affecting the global economic outlook and it has increased the uncertainty which the world economy faces."
Differences have appeared among G20 members over how to deal with the aftermath, with Germany among those against unleashing a new round of government spending to raise growth. However, the United States appeared to be open to such thinking.
"It would be a mistake to think about the choice of tools as being either/or when it comes to structural reforms or using fiscal space. The two go hand in glove," Jack Lew, the US treasury secretary, said.
Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, had been scheduled to give a press conference after the meeting but it was cancelled at the last minute. She is under fire after French prosecutors said last week that she would have to face trial for negligence over payments made eight years ago to Bernard Tapie, the French businessman.
Ms Lagarde said in a statement that the talks had allowed the international leaders to "tackle difficult issues". She said: "There was a consensus around the table that more needs to be done to share the benefits of growth and economic openness broadly within and among countries."
Revising down global growth for this year and next, Ms Lagarde said that the advanced economies were still suffering from weak demand while emerging markets were struggling to move to models of self-sustaining growth.
Mr Hammond said that the British authorities remained on standby to provide support to the economy if needed. "We have to be ready as government, the Bank of England has to be ready as monetary authority, throughout that period, to respond to any instability created by that uncertainty and to ensure that the economy continues to operate smoothly," he said.
Aside from Brexit, one of the main topics at the meeting was the spectre of currency wars. The pound has fallen by more than 10 per cent against the dollar since the referendum and by a similar amount against the euro.
With the US widely expected to raise interest rates in the next couple of months, Mr Lew said it was important that countries did not engage in "competitive devaluation".
'More must be done to share the benefits of growth'


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CHENGDU, SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               473 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Government plays down reports of Brexit deal; 'Too early to speculate' on proposal to allow UK have access to single market

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 502 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Senior Irish policymakers have played down reports in Britain that EU members were considering a Brexit deal that would allow full access to the single market for the UK with a seven-year exemption from the free movement of workers.
The Observer newspaper reported yesterday that there was support for the idea in European capitals, while British officials believe the "emergency brake" on the free movement of workers for seven years would calm British concerns about immigration, while retaining access to the single market.
Such an arrangement would almost certainly be welcomed in Dublin, as continued membership of the single market for the UK would mean there would be no need for a customs border in Ireland, although some tighter control of immigration could be needed.
However, Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan told The Irish Times it was "too early to speculate on what may take years to iron out". 
'Everything is possible' 
Fine Gael MEP Brian Hayes said the process was at the stage where ideas were being floated.  
"The official view is that access to the single market must be based on observing the four freedoms," Mr Hayes said. "But Brussels is a very malleable place."
"Everything is possible," he said. "But a seven-year exemption - that's about right in terms of how long this thing is going to go on. It's an interesting idea."
However, senior Irish officials were sceptical of the idea, and stressed that the process was at the beginning of what was likely to be a long and drawn-out negotiation.
"It's much too early to say," said one senior official. "There would be huge opposition among eastern member states."
Eastern migration 
Much of the EU immigration into Britain has been from Poland and other central and eastern European states. There could also be opposition from those who argued for Brexit because the suggested deal does not guarantee Britain permanent control over its borders, the official suggested.  
However, some sort of a trade-off between market access and border control was possible eventually, he said.
Another senior official who spoke to The Irish Times said the process was "very much at the speculation/ideas phase now". 
The political and diplomatic team to manage Britain's exit from the EU is only being brought together now, he added.
Taoiseach Enda Kenny is to travel to London to meet the new British prime minister Theresa May tomorrow for discussions on a range of matters, including the future of the Border in the post-Brexit landscape.
Border arrangements 
Ms May had said during the referendum campaign that it would be "inconceivable" that there would be no change in Border arrangements in the event of a vote to leave.  
However, the new Northern secretary James Brokenshire has stressed the British government's determination not to return to the Border of the past. 
Speaking in Cardiff on Friday after an emergency meeting of the British-Irish Council to discuss Brexit, Mr Kenny repeated that a return to Border checkpoints would be unacceptable.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); POLAND (79%); BELGIUM (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               474 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 11:10 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Manchester warns funding for 'wonder material' graphene at risk after Brexit; University's discovery won the Nobel prize but now its place on Europe-wide research group and £1m in EU cash is in doubt

BYLINE: Josh Halliday North of England correspondent

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 659 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Treasury ministers have been urged to back Britain's world-leading research on graphene, the "wonder material" first discovered in Manchester, amid concerns that it is set to lose £1m a year in EU funding after the UK's vote for Brexit.
Leading scientists warned that Britain is likely to lose its place in the EU's groundbreaking Graphene Flagship project, the biggest research scheme of its kind, following the result of the EU referendum last month.
Leaving the Europe-wide project would also mean losing £1m a year in funding for the University of Manchester, where the material was first isolated by two Nobel prize-winning scientists in 2004.
Andy Burnham MP, Labour candidate to be mayor of Greater Manchester, said: "EU membership was vital to the north-west and Manchester economy and that is why I have already asked Theresa May to plug any potential gaps. 
"Europe helped to keep Manchester and our universities at the cutting edge of research and development, including funds to boost the National Graphene Institute [at the University of Manchester]. The new PM and chancellor must ensure that the UK government, not only the Chinese one, steps in and supports Manchester's economy."
 Related:  Cancer, sea life, mental health: the UK research that will be hit by Brexit
The one atom-thick material is 200 times stronger than steel and conducts electricity better than any material known to man. It was first isolated by two University of Manchester scientists, Konstantin Novoselov and Andre Geim, who won the Nobel prize in physics for their work in 2010.
Scientists believe graphene has thousands of potential commercial applications, including being used in the next generation of aeroplanes and high-speed trains. 
Prof Robert Young, who leads the research project at the University of Manchester, raised concerns about the future of the EU funding as he announced new Chinese investment in the National Graphene Institute. 
The deal, thought to be worth between £2m and £3m, is a five-year research partnership between China's Beijing Institute of Aeronautical Materials and researchers in Manchester.
Young said there could be graphene-modified composites in aircraft within 10 years, including in the wings of Airbus planes made in Broughton, Chester.
With a budget of (EURO)1bn (£830m), the EU Graphene Flagship launched in 2013 and is Europe's biggest ever joint research project with 150 groups across 23 countries. 
 Related:  Graphene - the new wonder material
Young said: "We have three researchers from the Graphene Flagship, which is a European Union project, and we've got two years' funding on that that may not be renewed ... We don't know what's going to happen.
"I guess the government might come up with some system where EU projects are funded by the UK government rather than money from the EU. I would urge them to continue that. UK universities do quite well out of European research funding - we get (EURO)1.60 for every (EURO)1 we put in. That's a possible threat but we don't know how that will pan out."
Prof Richard Jones, a leading physicist and pro-vice-chancellor of research and innovation at the University of Sheffield, said: "The EU Graphene Flagship is a very big project and it's not just Manchester, there are a number of other universities that benefit from it. It matters for money but it also matters for those connections across Europe. I would be very worried indeed if I was in Manchester's place about that."
The Chinese investment comes as a delegation of Manchester's business and civic leaders, including the council chief executive, Sir Howard Bernstein, and the council leader, Sir Richard Leese, fly out to Beijing this week in an attempt to secure further Chinese investment in the city. 
Manchester airport last year launched the first ever direct flight from the north of England to Beijing, which was unveiled by David Cameron and Xi Jinping on the Chinese president's state visit to the UK in October.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ENGLAND (75%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               475 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 12:03 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Manufacturers feeling gloomy about future after Brexit vote; CBI survey shows optimism after EU referendum is at lowest level since global recession more than seven years ago

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 640 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's manufacturers are planning to shed jobs and put investment on hold after the shock result of the Brexit  vote provided the sharpest blow to business confidence since the global economy hit rock bottom in during the great recession more than seven years ago.
In a poll of more than 500 companies taken in the two weeks immediately after the 23 June referendum, the CBI said member firms were in cautious mood as they sought to work out what the decision meant for access to Europe's single market.
The employers' organisation said the "cloud of uncertainty" hanging over industry was causing firms to mothball investment plans and expect recent strong output growth to ease, and to cut staffing levels. 
With manufacturers taken by surprise by the referendum result, the CBI said the number of firms citing uncertainty about economic and political conditions abroad as a constraint on exports was at its highest since 1983.
The gloomier tone to the quarterly industrial trends survey followed a period when manufacturing appeared to be doing better after a difficult start to 2016. The CBI had provided strong backing for the remain side during the referendum campaign, reflecting the views of the majority of its member companies. 
The findings of the survey were seen by the City as all-but guaranteeing action by the Bank of England  to boost the economy when its nine-member monetary policy committee meets next week. A cut in interest rates and the resumption of the Bank's quantitative easing programme are seen as likely options.
Rain Newton-Smith, the CBI's chief economist, said: "Manufacturers picked up the pace over the second quarter, with output growing solidly. We're also seeing encouraging signs of a boost to export competitiveness from a weaker sterling.
"But it's clear that a cloud of uncertainty is hovering over industry, post-Brexit. We see this in weak expectations for new orders, a sharp fall in optimism and a scaling back of investment plans.
"So, it's important now for the new government to steady the ship with a plan, and a clear timetable, for negotiating the UK's relationship with the EU. This, along with a renewed focus on industrial strategy, will help give firms the confidence they need to grow and create jobs."
Only 5% of the businesses surveyed by the CBI said they were more upbeat about their future prospects than they were three months ago while 52% said they were more pessimistic. The gap of -47% was the biggest since January 2009, a period when global trade and industrial production was declining at its fastest rate since the great depression of the 1930s.
Total order books are expected to be flat over the next quarter, although exporters believe they stand get more business because the fall in the value of the pound will make their goods more cost competitive. On the downside, CBI members believe the higher cost of imports will push up their costs.
The survey found that firms were planning to cut spending on both new buildings and plant and machinery. In the previous industrial trends survey a balance of 6% of firms said they intended to invest more in buildings and a balance of 17% had plans for new plant and machinery. In the latest survey, these balances had fallen to -23% and -5% respectively.
Paul Hollingsworth, UK economist at Capital Economics, said the sharp drop from +23 points to +6 points in the balance of firms expecting output to rise over the coming three months suggested the sector was on course to contract.
He said: "Taken together with last week's flash manufacturing PMI, the evidence is mounting that the economy has taken a hit from Brexit. But it is still early days and the survey evidence so far could reflect an initial shock factor. We will have to wait a while longer before we get a clearer picture of just how big the immediate impact has been."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               476 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 12:03 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Manufacturers feeling gloomy about future after Brexit vote; CBI survey shows optimism following EU referendum is at lowest level since global recession more than seven years ago

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 486 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Optimism among Britain's manufacturers has slumped since the Brexit  vote to its lowest level since the depths of the global recession more than seven years ago, the CBI has reported.
The employers' organisation said the "cloud of uncertainty" hanging over industry was causing firms to mothball investment plans and expect recent strong output growth to ease.
With manufacturers taken by surprise by the referendum result, the CBI said the number of firms citing uncertainty about economic and political conditions abroad as a constraint on exports was at its highest since 1983.
The gloomier tone to the quarterly industrial trends survey followed a period when manufacturing appeared to be doing better after a difficult start to 2016.
Rain Newton-Smith, the CBI's chief economist, said: "Manufacturers picked up the pace over the second quarter, with output growing solidly. We're also seeing encouraging signs of a boost to export competitiveness from a weaker sterling.
"But it's clear that a cloud of uncertainty is hovering over industry, post-Brexit. We see this in weak expectations for new orders, a sharp fall in optimism and a scaling back of investment plans.
"So, it's important now for the new government to steady the ship with a plan, and a clear timetable, for negotiating the UK's relationship with the EU. This, along with a renewed focus on industrial strategy, will help give firms the confidence they need to grow and create jobs."
Only 5% of the businesses surveyed by the CBI said they were more upbeat about their future prospects than they were three months ago while 52% said they were more pessimistic. The gap of -47% was the biggest since January 2009, a period when global trade and industrial production was declining at its fastest rate since the Great Depression of the 1930s.
Total order books are expected to be flat over the next quarter, although exporters believe the fall in the value of the pound will help by making their goods more cost competitive.
The CBI found that firms were planning to cut spending on both new buildings and plant and machinery. In the previous industrial trends survey a balance of 6% of firms said they intended to invest more in buildings and a balance of 17% had plans for new plant and machinery. In the latest survey, these balances had fallen to -23% and -5% respectively.
Paul Hollingsworth, UK economist at Capital Economics, said the sharp drop from +23 points to +6 points in the balance of firms expecting output to rise over the coming three months suggested the sector was on course to contract.
He said: "Taken together with last week's flash manufacturing PMI, the evidence is mounting that the economy has taken a hit from Brexit. But it is still early days and the survey evidence so far could reflect an initial shock factor. We will have to wait a while longer before we get a clearer picture of just how big the immediate impact has been."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               477 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Northern politicians threaten legal case over Brexit; May to meet Foster and McGuinness today during first visit to Stormont as PM

BYLINE: Gerry Moriarty

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 408 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: and STEVEN McCAFFERY 
 British prime minister Theresa May has been put on notice that she faces a legal challenge from prominent Northern Ireland politicians and interest groups over Brexit.
Ms May will meet First Minister Arlene Foster and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness in Stormont today on her first visit to Northern Ireland as prime minister.
Ahead of the visit, however, senior politicians, who include the SDLP and Alliance leaders and a former Sinn Féin minister, have demanded that Ms May ensure that the Belfast Agreement and the peace process are legally protected before there is any legal move by the UK to leave the EU.
They said they would seek a judicial review if Ms May "fails to commit to comply with the UK's constitutional and legal obligations in deciding whether and when to trigger article 50", the mechanism that must be activated to take the UK out of the EU. 
"These obligations include safeguarding the unique requirements of Northern Ireland constitutional law and statute, in particular the statutory recognition of the Belfast-Good Friday Agreement, and satisfying the requirements of EU law incorporated into the law of Northern Ireland by the European Communities Act 1972," they said.
The group, which includes SDLP leader Colum Eastwood, former Sinn Féin education minister John O'Dowd, Alliance leader David Ford and Green Party leader Steven Agnew, have asked the prime minister and new northern secretary James Brokenshire to respond within two weeks.
Before flying to Belfast, Ms May said: "I have been clear that we will make a success of the UK's departure from the European Union. That means it must work for Northern Ireland too, including in relation to the Border. We will engage with all of Northern Ireland's parties as we prepare for that negotiation."
Peaceful 
The group, as part of its legal argument, stated the British government must accord "adequate weight" to the fact that a majority of people in Northern Ireland - 56 per cent - voted to remain in the EU.  
It also demanded that in deciding when article 50 would be activated, the British government must protect "the progress made towards a peaceful society". 
The group's legal representatives, Belfast firm Jones Cassidy Brett, said that the British government could only trigger article 50 "after properly taking into account all relevant alternatives to exiting the EU and not giving undue weight to the results only of this referendum". 


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               478 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: PM seeks to allay Irish fears over post-Brexit border; Belfast visit

BYLINE: George Parker, Political Editor

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May will promise today that Brexit will not lead to a reintroduction of a "hard border" in Northern Ireland, as she attempts to allay fears that the vote to leave the EU will harm the peace process.
The prime minister will insist on a visit to Belfast that "peace and stability will always be the highest priority" for her government, despite claims that Brexit could set back progress since the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
Tony Blair and John Major joined forces last month to warn that Brexit could lead to the reintroduction of border controls between the north and south.
Mrs May's allies said she would try to quash the idea on her visit to Belfast: "She will say she doesn't want to see a return of the border controls of the past," one said.
Turning those words into action could prove tricky, since after Brexit a border that has become little more than a line on the map will become an external EU frontier.
If Britain were to leave the EU single market and customs union, the border could become a backdoor route for exporters looking to avoid new tariffs on trade between the UK and the 27 other member states.
Equally, if Britain did not conduct passport controls at the border, EU citizens would be able to travel freely into the UK and then across the Irish Sea to the mainland without any further checks.
The obvious tensions in this arrangement have caused serious concern in Dublin and Belfast, where the two administrations have tried to erase evidence of the border to facilitate the peace process.
Mr Blair warned last month that it would be "profoundly foolish to risk those foundations of security" created by the peace process and the subsequent normalisation of north-south relations.
Mrs May, who has made trips to Edinburgh and Cardiff since becoming prime minister, will discuss Brexit with Arlene Foster, Northern Ireland's first minister, and her deputy, Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness. Mr McGuinness said last week that he could not see how the common travel area - which allows free movement by citizens of the Republic of Ireland into the north and vice versa - could survive the UK's negotiations to leave the EU.
"We have spent the last 20 years forging various agreements which have placed the Irish peace process as one of the most successful peace processes in the world today," he said.
"Anything that resembled a return to border checkpoints would represent a grievous undermining of the Good Friday Agreement."
Ms Foster said all sides would need to be "flexible and creative".
Mrs May will promise to engage the Northern Ireland executive fully in preparing the UK's Brexit negotiating strategy, "including in relation to the border with the Republic".
Theresa Villiers, the pro-Brexit former Northern Ireland secretary, told the Financial Times in April that the government could use existing laws to combat illegal immigration and illegal working if EU nationals used the Irish route to enter mainland Britain.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (79%); CARDIFF, WALES (56%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); IRELAND (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               479 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Smith can apply to EIB for infrastructure finance, regardless of Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, It is a long time since Jeremy Corbyn and I were founder members of the Campaign for Labour Party Democracy. Jeremy also has changed the terms of reference of the debate in the Labour party away from New Labour's "Third Way". But if Owen Smith is to succeed him, not least with his commitment to a £200bn investment-led recovery programme, he could draw on precedents of which he and his advisers as yet may be unaware.
For example, half of the costs of this could be financed by the European Investment Bank without counting on UK national debt. It would not be surprising if Mr Smith were unaware of this. At meetings in Brussels before the UK referendum, the economic advisers to council president Donald Tusk, commission president Jean-Claude Juncker, economics commissioner Jyrki Katainen and employment commissioner Marianne Thyssen did not know this either. Nor did the senior economic adviser to the commission and the International Monetary Fund's representatives to the EU - even though it was immediately confirmed by the former president of the EIB, Philippe Maystadt.
Moreover, thanks to the then Portuguese prime minister, António Guterres, the European Council of heads of state and government in 1997 remitted the EIB to finance investments in health, education, urban regeneration, green technology and finance for small and medium-sized companies, which it has since done with considerable success, enabling it in the decade until the financial crisis to quadruple its investment finance.
All this might seem irrelevant granted Brexit - except that EIB finance does not depend on membership of the EU. The UK can apply for this, without it counting on national debt, much as many other non-EU member states have done.
Prof Stuart Holland
Institute for Advanced Studies,
Köszeg, Hungary


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               480 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 12:51 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Sturgeon: independence may be best for Scotland amid Brexit upheaval; Barriers to protecting Scotland 'substantial', first minister says as she argues independence may offer greatest stability

BYLINE: Libby Brooks Scotland correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 321 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Independence may offer Scotland the greatest stability as the rest of the United Kingdom faces upheaval and unpredictability after voting to leave the EU, Nicola Sturgeon has said. 
Scotland's first minister described the barriers to protecting her country's interests while remaining in the UK as "substantial". 
Addressing an Institute of Public Policy Research event in Edinburgh, Sturgeon said she feared the UK government is pursuing a "hard rather than a soft Brexit" that would result in a future outside the single market with only limited access and a significant restrictions of free movement. 
Acknowledging that independence was not a simple solution after Scotland voted by 62% to remain within the EU in last month's referendum, she said: "I don't pretend that the option of independence would be straightforward. It would bring its own challenges - as well as opportunities.
 Related:  Nicola Sturgeon attacks 'shameful' failure of UK government over Brexit - live
"But consider this: the UK that we voted to stay part of in 2014 - a UK within the EU - is fundamentally changing. The outlook for the UK is uncertainty, upheaval and unpredictability.
"In these circumstances, it may well be that the option that offers us the greatest certainty, stability and the maximum control over our destiny is that of independence."
She reaffirmed that in the period before article 50 is triggered Scotland must explore options "that would allow different parts of this multi-national UK to pursue different outcomes".
"That means the nations that voted to leave can start figuring out what Brexit actually does mean, while others, like Scotland, can focus on how to retain ties and keep open channels we do not want to dismantle," she said.
But Sturgeon said the barriers to achieving such a solution were "substantial", saying: "Even if we can agree a position at UK level, we would face the task of persuading the EU to agree it."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); SCOTLAND (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               481 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Syngenta points to Brexit fillip for UK's crop regulations; Basic resources

BYLINE: Ralph Atkins in Basel

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 486 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's planned exit from the EU would allow it to break with "politicised" European regulation in agriculture and take swifter advantage of scientific breakthroughs, the chief executive of Switzerland's Syngenta agribusiness has said.
Erik Fyrwald argued the UK was a "voice for science-based regulation" and likely to develop a regulatory system that allowed the faster adoption of crop protection and seed technologies, which boosted farm competitiveness.
His comments are an example of international business spotting benefits from the UK Brexit decision , even if they are unsure about its long-term impact. Syngenta has 2,500 employees in the UK, including in research.
"I think it is an opportunity for the UK in agriculture," Mr Fyrwald said.
"Increasingly, the EU regulatory process is becoming politicised." Post-Brexit, the UK would establish its own system, he went on. "Based on everything I have heard, they will make it science based and therefore will have the opportunity to consider maybe more rapidly new technologies that can enhance the competitiveness of UK farmers."
Genetically modified crops have faced fierce resistance in Europe. Mr Fyrwald, an American, did not expect their cultivation would be allowed in the UK but thought approvals might be easier in the future for genetically modified imports.
Syngenta is subject to a $44bn takeover offer by ChemChina, the state-owned chemical group. Shareholders remain sceptical whether the deal will take place, however, with Syngenta's shares still trading significantly lower than the offer price.
Possible obstacles include the Committee on Foreign Investment United States (CFIUS), which could block the deal on national security grounds.
But Mr Fyrwald said the "constructive engagement," the group had with regulators around the world, including in the US, "reinforces our confidence that we should close the deal by the end of the year." That, he said, was "not a statement we could make if we had seen things in these discussions that made us believe it was not going to happen".
Mr Fyrwald also dismissed fears about the financing of the deal by ChemChina, saying: "That is also not going to be an issue." Investor scepticism about the deal's chances, he attributed to "the opaqueness of some of the [regulatory approvals] processes - particularly CFIUS in the US."
ChemChina's deal is part of a significant industrial upheaval, with Germany's Bayer launching a so far unsuccessful $64bn cash offer for Monsanto of the US. Mr Fyrwald said Syngenta's ownership by ChemChina would enable it to ride out downturns in the sector without facing the short-term demands of activist investors.
Syngenta's half-year results last week bore the scars of tougher global markets resulting from low wheat and corn prices as well as bad weather conditions. Sales of $7.1bn were down 7 per cent compared with a year earlier, or 2 per cent in constant currencies.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (78%); GERMANY (73%); CH Switzerland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               482 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May to rule out return of border checks between UK and Ireland; PM aims to reassure Northern Ireland during Belfast trip and will vow to engage with devolved government over Brexit

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana Political editor

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 578 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May will reassure the first minister of Northern Ireland that there will be no return to border checks for people entering the UK from the Republic of Ireland despite Britain's vote to leave the EU.
 Related:  After Brexit, Northern Irish politics will again be dominated by the border | Ian McBride
The prime minister will make the pledge to Arlene Foster during a visit to Belfast on Monday, during which she will also promise to engage with the region's devolved administration in preparation for Brexit negotiations.
Speaking ahead of the trip that completes a tour of all four parts of the UK within the first two weeks of her premiership, May said: "I made clear when I became prime minister that I place particular value on the precious bonds between the nations of the United Kingdom. 
"I want to assure the people of Northern Ireland that I will lead a government [that] works for everyone across all parts of the United Kingdom, and that Northern Ireland is a special and valued part of that union."
May said she wanted to underline her commitment to the Belfast agreement, arguing that "peace and stability in Northern Ireland will always be of the highest priority for my government". 
She added: "I have been clear that we will make a success of the UK's departure from the European Union. That means it must work for Northern Ireland too, including in relation to the border with the Republic. We will engage with all of Northern Ireland's political parties as we prepare for that negotiation."
It is understood that May will support the position of the Irish prime minister, Enda Kenny, that there will be no "hard border" between the two countries, which have a common travel area.
Critics will question how that would be possible given the strong desire, particularly in England, to restrict freedom of movement after Brexit. There are currently no checks when someone passes from Ireland into the UK.
Just two days before the EU referendum last month, May said it was "inconceivable" that there would be no hard border in the event of Brexit. 
She  told the BBC : "If we were out of the European Union with tariffs on exporting goods into the EU, there'd have to be something to recognise that between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. 
"And if you pulled out of the EU and came out of free movement, then how could you have a situation where there was an open border with a country that was in the EU and had access to free movement?"
The debate over the Irish border comes as some Conservative MPs on the right of the party hit back at the suggestion that EU officials are considering plans to allow Britain to retain single market access alongside a seven-year emergency brake on freedom of movement.
John Redwood MP said any such deal would betray the referendum result. "The UK did not recently vote for a slightly beefed up version of Mr Cameron's attempted renegotiation with the EU. We voted to leave, to take back control of our laws, our money and our borders. Those phrases were repeated throughout the leave campaign, heard and understood by many, and approved by the majority of voters," he wrote on a blog.
"The rest of the EU is missing the point. There should be no negotiation over taking back control of these important matters."
Redwood said that when the Conservatives lost the general election in 2005, they did not try to overturn the result, take anyone to court or demand a rerun. "We accepted the verdict of the UK voters." 


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               483 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday 2:40 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May tries to ease 'hard border' fears on Northern Ireland visit; Prime minister says 'no one wants a return to border of the past' with Irish Republic as she meets leaders to discuss Brexit vote

BYLINE: Henry McDonald in Belfast

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 572 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has vowed to maintain peace and stability in Northern Ireland despite fears that Britain's vote to leave the EU will lead to the creation of a "hard border" with the Irish Republic.
On her first visit to the province as prime minister, May tried to assuage concerns about a fortified frontier between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
May, while campaigning for a remain vote as home secretary during the referendum campaign, had said it was inconceivable that border arrangements between the two could remain unchanged in the event of a Brexit vote.
 Related:  Bertie Ahern: UK would have to reimpose Irish border after Brexit
Speaking in Belfast on Monday, the prime minister said: "No one wants a return to the border of the past." May was referring to the state of the border during the Troubles, when hundreds of rural roads were blocked by security barriers and there were armed vehicle checkpoints, and permanent border posts manned by police and British troops.
May described her talks with the deputy first minister, Martin McGuinness of Sinn Féin, and Arlene Foster, the first minister and Democratic Unionist party leader, as "very constructive, positive".
"What we do want to do is to find a way through this that is going to work and deliver a practical solution for everybody - as part of the work that we are doing to ensure that we make a success of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union - and that we come out of this with a deal which is in the best interests of the whole of the United Kingdom," she said.
Her 90-minute meeting with the leaders of the Northern Ireland executive coincided with a legal challenge being mounted by a coalition of pro-EU human rights and community groups in the province. They are attempting to overturn the Brexit vote so the region can remain in the EU.
However, May repeated her assertion on entering Downing Street that her government will begin the process of leaving the EU.
"Brexit means Brexit, but we will be making a success of it and I am clear that the Northern Ireland executive and the other devolved governments will be involved in our discussions as we set forward the UK position," she said.
McGuinness said he told the prime minister that in terms of Brexit, there was "no good news for the people of the north of Ireland".
On Europe, McGuinness said he, rather than the pro-Brexit Foster, spoke for the majority of people - "unionists, nationalists and republicans" - who voted to remain in the EU. In the referendum on 23 June, 56% of those who voted in Northern Ireland wanted to stay in the EU.
Foster said she was delighted that May regarded Northern Ireland as a "strategic part of the United Kingdom. "No one wants to see the borders of the 70s, 80s, 90s [again]".
The first minister went on to say she would object to any special restrictions being imposed on Northern Irish citizens travelling to other parts of the UK.
"There must be no internal borders within the United Kingdom. She [May] responded positively to that. There will be no internal borders in the United Kingdom," Foster said.
Foster rejected McGuinness's claim to speak for the majority of people when it came to the EU. Foster said the UK as a whole had voted to leave the EU and that this would have to be respected.
On Tuesday, May will hold further talks on the implications of the Brexit vote for the island of Ireland when she meets the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, in London.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (56%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               484 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Time to overcome Brexit grief and get on with it

BYLINE: Roger Carr

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 616 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: In corporate gatherings throughout the UK, those of us who advocated Remain have continued to advance through the five stages of Brexit grief. Initial denial, anger and depression are giving way to thoughts of bargaining and acceptance. It is imperative that finding a solution rather than dwelling on the problem is the order of the day.
The speedy and surgically efficient transfer of power within government has been a welcome achievement, providing a degree of certainty in an unstable world. Initial indications of vision, competence and resolve are encouraging.
The declared mission of the prime minister in building a more balanced and unified kingdom - economically, socially, regionally and nationally - is timely and necessary. The role of business leaders in creating an economic foundation on which their ambitions can be funded and the hopes of society realised is mission-critical.
Business must play the cards that have been dealt rather than lament the absence of a better hand. Brexit has disturbed international relationships, disrupted recovery, dislocated the certainty of unfettered trade with Europe and destabilised currency markets. In the short term, however, our planned departure has delivered a helpful shift in sterling valuation that has honed our competitive edge for exports and provided a profit uplift to those companies with material dollar earnings.
Stock markets have responded accordingly. To sustain this positive momentum, however, the currency shift must not be viewed as a substitute for building long-term fitness, but merely as a temporary boost while we address our fundamental competitive challenges.
Unless this is achieved, all those who had hoped for a better independent future for the UK risk seeing dreams and ambitions dashed on the rocks of recession. This must not be allowed to happen.
The prime minister has marshalled her resources to navigate a favourable exit from Europe and build stronger bridges into global markets. Success will require a flexible mindset and a strengthened skillset.
In Europe it is only by respecting the challenges of those we are leaving that we can hope to secure an amicable separation. In global markets it is only by acknowledging that we are entitled to nothing and must earn everything that we can hope to succeed.
Business must unite with government in common cause if together we are to build the prosperity that is essential to funding the demands of health, education and housing and fuel the future of a great independent Britain.
We need an industrial strategy that supports sectors, encourages exports, stimulates innovation and drives productivity as the bedrock of our growth agenda.
Politicians must set the climate and business lead the way. The reputation of business as a true engine of growth and wealth creator must be established by fairly rewarding the enterprise of the many rather than feeding the greed of the few. Better boardroom behaviour by all is mandatory if we are to regain trust and avoid intrusive legislation and excessive regulation.
In a world where Brexit means Brexit, corporate pragmatism must trump pessimism, ambition must overcome despair, and values must be the partner of performance in all boardrooms.
Britain is rarely better than when faced with adversity. The outcome of the referendum may not be what many wished for, but rising to the challenge and beating the odds will be our only hope of building prosperity and a fairer society that once again becomes comfortable with itself.
It is a challenge that will test the mettle, character and skills of business and politicians alike. It is a challenge that together we must not fail.
Sir Roger Carr is chairman of BAE Systems
Graphic
The vote to leave the EU drew protests but business will play the hand it is dealt


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               485 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK lawyers seek to join Irish roll after Brexit

BYLINE: Aodhan O'Faolain

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 311 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Hundreds of UK-based lawyers have inquired about being formally recognised in Ireland in wake of the Brexit vote. 
The Law Society of Ireland has said it has been receiving "approximately 30 initial queries per day from UK-based solicitors" about admission to the Irish Roll of Solicitors, the list of all admitted solicitors held by the society. 
Amid the ongoing uncertainty since the Brexit result, the increase is seen as an attempt by British lawyers to preserve their right to operate within the EU bloc, as well as in the UK. 
Despite the interest, the society said that, following discussions it held with major international law firms, it "does not expect a flood of lawyers" relocating to Ireland. 
The society said, in the year up to the date of the Brexit referendum vote, some 186 solicitors based in the North, England and Wales were admitted to the Roll of Solicitors.
But, since the Brexit vote - on June 24th - that figure has risen to 250. The number of newly admitted UK-based solicitors represents less than 2 per cent of the total number of solicitors currently on the roll, it said. 
For many years, the process allowing Irish lawyers and their UK peers practise in the respective jurisdictions has been a straightforward process. 
Under rules made following an EU directive in 1989, solicitors who have qualified in England, Wales or the North are permitted to undergo a simple process that, when completed, allows them to practise as solicitors in Ireland. Similarly, solicitors qualified in Ireland can transfer with ease to the rolls of solicitors in the North, England and Wales. 
The increase has led to some concerns about the regulation of solicitors based outside of Ireland. But, the society said "It is not a new situation for there to be solicitors on the Irish Roll of Solicitors who practise outside Ireland, including in non-EU countries." 


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRELAND (93%); ENGLAND (93%); WALES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               486 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK seeks to calm business with positive EU response; Brexit talks

BYLINE: Chris Giles in London and Yuan Yang in Chengdu

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 504 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Philip Hammond, the UK chancellor, has said Britain must adopt a realistic negotiating position with the rest of the EU or face years of damaging economic uncertainty.
Speaking to journalists at the G20 meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors in Chengdu, China, Mr Hammond said the way to send a reassuring signal to business and restore UK confidence was to get a "positive" EU response to Britain's negotiating stance on terms for leaving the bloc .
Agreement is unlikely to be easy, however, because Britain's European partners, including France , have indicated the UK will not be able to be a member of the European single market if it wants to limit free movement of EU nationals.
Data published on Friday showed that British business activity had suffered its sharpest fall since the financial crisis, but Mr Hammond said he did not think the result indicated a recession.
"I think what it does is underscore the hit to confidence that the uncertainty following the referendum decision has created," he said.
He said he did not accept that serving the Article 50 notice that triggers the two-year process for leaving the EU would end uncertainty.
"The uncertainty will only end when the deal is done. I think what will start to reduce uncertainty is when we will set out more clearly the kind of arrangement we envisage going forward with the EU," Mr Hammond said.
"If our EU partners respond to such a vision positively, obviously it will be subject to negotiation, but positively, so that there is a sense later this year that we're all on the same page where we expect to be going.
"I think that will send a reassuring signal to the business community and to markets," he added.
Brexit-supporting Conservative cabinet ministers have raised the prospect that Britain could negotiate continued free movement of its citizens to EU countries, a repatriation of £350m a week from UK budget contributions and an end to compliance with EU regulations, all of which are unlikely to be agreed by EU nations this year.
Mr Hammond said the initial response to a loss of confidence was in the hands of the Bank of England.
He also clarified comments that the government might "reset" tax and public spending plans, which were widely interpreted as a signal of a large fiscal loosening to come in the Autumn Statement in November or December.
"We have the option of a fiscal response, we will do that on our normal timescale . . . in the autumn, by which time we will have some economic data available which allows us to make a measured decision about the state of the economy and to reach a proper conclusion about whether a fiscal stimulus is required," he said.
He promised a new fiscal framework to boost the confidence of companies and households, but declined to elaborate on the scale of any possible fiscal stimulus or whether there would be changes to deficit reduction plans.
"What that framework looks like will depend on our decisions we make about whether fiscal stimulus is required," Mr Hammond said.
See Comment


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CHENGDU, SICHUAN, CHINA (73%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); CN China; GB United Kingdom; XO Asia; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               487 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 25, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'We have not seen any major [Brexit] panic'; Laurent Ramsey

BYLINE: Attracta Mooney

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1102 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's vote to leave the EU has spooked many financial services providers. But Laurent Ramsey, chief executive of Pictet Asset Management, is sanguine about the probable impact of Brexit on his business, the UK and markets.
We meet just 12 days after the UK's surprise vote in favour of leaving the EU and Mr Ramsey rejects many of the concerns that have arisen. "It is not worrying us at this stage," says the man who became chief executive of the EUR139bn Swiss asset manager at the start of 2016.
In the wake of the vote, sterling dropped to 30-year lows and billions of dollars were wiped off the value of stock markets globally. Mutual funds in Europe suffered their worst outflows for a year.
But Mr Ramsey, a Swiss native who enjoys scuba diving, is quick to dismiss potential problems. The volatility and negative sentiments surrounding markets are "a buying signal", not least because there is value to be found in stocks right now, he says.
As for outflows, Pictet AM, which is part of the eponymous Swiss private bank , has not been affected, the 46-year-old adds. Between June 24, the day the result of the referendum was announced, and July 6, the investment house had net inflows of £590m.
"We have not seen any major panic [from clients]," says the father of two.
His relaxed stance is in stark contrast to many of his peers.
Banks have threatened to relocate thousands of staff from the City of London, the UK's financial hub, while asset managers are looking at bulking up their operations in other European countries because of Brexit. They fear they will lose their right to " passport " products and services from London into EU countries.
Sitting in his large London office that overlooks some of the City's most iconic buildings, Mr Ramsey plays down these concerns. "There is nothing at the moment" that suggests asset managers without a large EU hub would face any restrictions selling their products across the common market, he says.
And yet, if there were restrictions, Pictet AM is among the continental European asset managers that could be most affected, because it might soon lose its base in an EU country. Its two largest offices are in the UK and Switzerland - the latter of which voted in 2014 to introduce quotas on EU migrants from 2017.
Switzerland is not a member of the EU but accesses the common market by accepting the trading bloc's key rules, including allowing EU citizens to live and work in the Alpine country.
If the country pushes ahead with a quota, it would violate the terms of Switzerland's free-movement treaty with the EU. The bloc has threatened to suspend other EU-Swiss agreements, including those that make it easier to trade, if Switzerland unilaterally imposes quotas.
At the moment, the Swiss vote "doesn't have any impact" on Pictet's operations and staff, although Mr Ramsey admits it is "very difficult to know" what might happen in future.
But he says the company is committed to Switzerland and London, where it has had an office since 1982 and where Mr Ramsey spends about 40 per cent of his time. "London and Switzerland will remain our major hubs unless there is a major change in regulation," he says.
The company has plans to hire about 50 people this year, many of whom will be based in London and Switzerland.
He adds that even if Pictet were forced to bulk up its staff in EU countries in order to continue selling its funds to European investors, this would not be a big task.
This is partly because, like many others, the fund house already has a management company in Luxembourg, where many of its funds are domiciled, and partly because he believes staff would be willing to move. "The talent is mobile," he says.
Two other issues seem to preoccupy the finance graduate more than Brexit.
The first is short-termism. "We have lost sight of what long term means. It means investing for your retirement, not this year's returns or next quarter's returns," he says. "People are treating funds like they are a commodity. They are obsessed with monthly returns."
Short-termism can cause problems, not least within the companies fund managers invest in. Listed companies have been accused of prioritising short-term results over long-term plans that grow businesses and economies.
"The short-termism in the [fund] industry has some perverse effects that we have to fight," he says.
Mr Ramsey's other big concern is the rise of passive managers. Assets under management in passive funds, which track rather than try to beat the market, have grown by 230 per cent to $6tn since 2007.
But investing in passive funds can come with big risks, says the chief executive, especially in complex asset classes. In the high-yield bond market, he says active management is needed to understand the real risk of a company defaulting and the underlying liquidity of each bond.
By tracking an index, investors could find themselves exposed to companies that are more likely to default, he adds. "High-yield passive is dangerous. You don't want to invest blindly in an index."
He admits, however, that passive funds are driving active managers to up their game. "[Passive investing] forces active managers to be really active and forces out closet indexing," he says, referring to the practice where funds charge a high fee for active management but closely follow their benchmark.
It is now, amid volatile markets thanks to Brexit and fears about global growth, that active managers can prove their worth, Mr Ramsey adds. Beta returns - those generated by market movements that account for performance in passive funds - will not be as strong as they were in the past, he says.
Like the British voters who felt leaving the EU was a risk worth taking, investors too will have to take more risks in the new Brexit world, says Mr Ramsey. "If you want some real returns, you are going to have to take some active risk."
Born 1970
Total pay Not disclosed
Education 1991 Degree in business administration (finance), University of Lausanne, HEC business school
1992 Masters in international management, HEC
1995 European diploma of financial analysis and portfolio management
Career 1993 Joins Pictet, Geneva
1995 Senior investment manager in Asia (Hong Kong and Singapore)
1998 Executive director, Pictet Asia
2000 Head of marketing and sales, Pictet Funds
2004 Chief executive, Pictet Funds
2010 Global head of distribution, Pictet Asset Management
2016 Managing partner of the Pictet Group and chief executive of Pictet Asset Management
Pictet
Asset Management
Founded 1980
Assets under management $158.5bn (June 30 2016)
Employees 780 (London 267, Geneva 385)
Headquarters Geneva
Ownership Pictet Group


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CH Switzerland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               488 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Aberdeen in 13th straight quarter of asset outflows;   £1.5bn pulled from property funds   Brexit volatility takes heavy toll

BYLINE: Chris Newlands, Asset Management Editor

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 481 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Aberdeen Asset Management has suffered its 13th straight quarter of outflows after investors pulled £1.5bn from the property funds of Europe's third-largest listed investment house amid fears over the UK's decision to leave the EU.
The Scottish asset manager, which two weeks ago was forced to stop withdrawals from its UK Property Fund following the Brexit vote, said it had experienced considerable market volatility during the last week of June.
Aberdeen reopened the real estate fund for trading last week but had been forced to put some of its property on the market to meet redemption requests, including an office building in Hammersmith, west London, that serves as the UK headquarters of Fox International, a division of 21stCentury Fox.
The emerging market specialist said it had suffered a further £7.4bn of outflows from its other fund ranges during the three months to the end of June, taking the toll for the year to more than £16bn of redemptions.
Laith Khalaf, of the retail investment broker Hargreaves Lansdown, said: "For Aberdeen, the outflows from the property sector are a bit of a sideshow, as withdrawals are taking place across the board.
"At the moment, for every £1 in assets Aberdeen is attracting, £2 is walking out the door, and that's not sustainable for a fund manager in the long term."
Despite the falls, the weakening of the pound since the vote to leave the EU meant that Aberdeen's assets under management grew to £301.4bn from £292.8bn at the end of March, although this was still lower than some analysts had expected.
Aberdeen's share price has risen 30 per cent to 320p since the Brexit vote as investors cautiously return to emerging markets, after previously shunning the asset class amid fears of falling commodity prices and the impact of a strong dollar against local currencies.
Haley Tam of Citigroup in London, however, believes that the company might have rallied too much.
"Aberdeen's share price already reflects strong recovery in flows and returns," she said.
"We believe it is too early for this degree of confidence. We see the outlook for property fund and global equity redemptions as a powerful headwind, which more than offsets the nascent emerging market equity flow recovery. We reiterate our sell recommendation and 250p target."
Aberdeen's real estate fund completed the first sale of a property marketed in the aftermath of the vote, selling a building at 355-361 Oxford Street in London to Norges Bank Real Estate Management for £124m on July 15.
This was lower than the reported asking price of £145m but still represents a capital gain from the £76m it paid in 2011 for the building, whose main tenant is the pharmacy chain Walgreens Boots Alliance.
Martin Gilbert , chief executive of Aberdeen, said: "There are many uncertainties out there [but] we remain well placed to take advantage, on behalf of our clients, of any weakness."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ABERDEEN, SCOTLAND (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (78%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               489 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Airline changes course to evade UK turbulence; Carrier will also cut fares to deal with impact of Brexit, strikes and terrorism

BYLINE: Barry O'Halloran

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 472 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Ryanair grew profits by 4 per cent to EUR 256 million in the three months to the end of June but it has to cope with growing uncertainty in its biggest market, the UK, after the country's electorate voted to leave the EU.
As a result, chief executive Michael O'Leary and financial officer Neil Sorahan were cautious when discussing the airline's immediate future, even though Ryanair is sticking with a forecast that profits will grow 12 per cent to between EUR 1.375 billion and EUR 1.425 billion in its current financial year, which ends on March 31st, 2017.
O'Leary warned that Brexit had led to a "considerable period of political and economic uncertainty in both the UK and EU". 
Britain is Ryanair's biggest market, accounting for almost 40 million passengers and 28 per cent of its revenues.
 Its first response to the Brexit vote will be to cut frequency and capacity on routes out of London Stansted, although it will not axe any of them.
Over the next two years, it will shift expansion from UK airports to its EU bases. 
Likely targets include Germany, where Ryanair wants to increase market share; Italy, which plans to cut travel tax; and Spain, which intends to stimulate tourism growth as part of its effort to cut youth unemployment.
"There is pent-up demand in a lot of European airports that have been approaching us and we are happy to give them the field," Sorahan said.
 "We are not going to stop growing in the UK, but you won't see the kind of growth that since 2014 saw us going from 13 million passengers a year to 19 million at Stansted, any more."
 Strikes Another challenge is frequent air traffic control strikes, particularly in France. These cost the airline 1,000 flights during the quarter, including those travelling through the country's airspace as well as those to and from there.
Ryanair and its peers are campaigning for a binding arbitration system to tackle disputes, or to have neighbouring air navigation authorities take responsibility for French air space during stoppages.
 Even more out of its control are attacks, such as those in Munich and Nice, which are hitting tourism as they are making people more fearful of travelling.
The airline plans to deal with the collective impact of Brexit, strikes and terrorism in its usual fashion, by cutting fares. The average cost of a seat was down 10 per cent in the first quarter at EUR 39.92.
Tthe airline expects a drop of 8 per across the first half of its financial year, which ends on September 30th.
A EUR 200 million saving in fuel and a 4 per cent drop in other costs will help pay for this. 
The growth it expects in the current financial year will flow from a 10.4 per cent increase in passengers to 117 million.
 That figure, which is one million more than predicted in May, is helping to underpin the airline's unchanged guidance on profit for 2017.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (90%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); FRANCE (76%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               490 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit: six important lessons for investors; The stock market moves in strange and counterintuitive ways. Predicting these to turn a profit is far from easy

BYLINE: Proinsias O'Mahony

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1339 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Just over a month ago, British voters stunned the world by voting for Brexit. Markets tanked before staging a mighty rebound that has taken many by surprise. What lessons can investors learn from the Brexit rollercoaster?
1 Diversify, diversify, diversify Brexit hit some national indices and sectors harder than others. Bank stocks were pulverised; many of Europe's largest financials quickly lost a third of their value or more and remain well-shy of pre-Brexit levels. 
The FTSE 250, which is heavily focused on the UK economy, has badly underperformed the multinational-dominated FTSE 100. The Iseq was one of the worst-hit indices. It endured a two-day fall of 17 per cent and the subsequent rebound has not looked particularly convincing. 
Brexit represents a costly lesson regarding the benefits of diversification and the dangers of home bias. Four companies - CRH, Ryanair, Kerry Group and Paddy Power Betfair - make up more than two-thirds of the Iseq's stock market capitalisation. The index's narrowness means it is always vulnerable to sudden drawdowns. 
Similarly, UK investors guilty of home bias must be looking on enviously at those who took a diversified approach. In sterling terms, British equity investors with international portfolios would actually have enjoyed sizeable gains over the past month, due to the pound's precipitous decline. US investments, meanwhile, have shrugged off Brexit, with the S&P500 continuing to hit all-time highs. 
Clearly, Brexit is a reminder that the old cliche about diversification being the only free lunch in finance remains an apt one.
2 It pays to know your market history Ordinary investors could be forgiven for being perplexed as to the stock market reaction to Brexit. It's not uncommon for stocks to rebound following a steep market plunge, but not many investors expected the FTSE 100 to hit an 11-month high in the process. Nor did many investors expect the S&P500 to hit all-time highs within weeks of a serious market shock.
Stock market history, however, shows market shocks tend to be less impactful than one might assume. Stocks were pummelled in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks in 2001, for example, but the S&P500 had recouped its losses within 19 days, and this is not an isolated example. 
Last year, Credit Suisse analysts took a look at the data, and found "the large majority of individual major events - ranging from the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand 100 years ago through to 9/11 and recent events in Iraq and Ukraine - impact major stock markets by around 10 per cent or less, with the effect being fully reversed within a month or so". 
This doesn't mean the post-Brexit rally was in some way inevitable - it wasn't. However, nor was the rebound some strange aberration; anyone familiar with history will know that it rarely pays to sell up in the aftermath of market scares.
3 Every scare is not a 'Lehman moment' Former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan was spooked by Brexit, describing it as "the worst period I recall since I've been in public service". Influential economist and former US treasury secretary Larry Summers was similarly nervous, tweeting that Brexit was "the worst shock since WWII & central banks are out of ammo". "Is 'Brexit' Europe's Lehman Brothers Moment?" headlined the New York Times.
Such warnings have become wearily familiar. "As in August 1997, 1998, 2007 and 2008, we could be in the early stage of a very serious situation," Summers tweeted last August, during the China-induced global growth scare. The Greek debt crisis, easy money from central banks, the oil price crash and innumerable other market scares in recent years have catalysed agonised warnings that another "Lehman moment" may be at hand. 
Once, such dire warnings would have been perceived as the sensationalist preserve of the financial world's more excitable commentators, rather than from figures such as Summers and Greenspan. Like policymakers everywhere, both men did not spot the signs of trouble in the years leading up to the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. Accusations of complacency have been levelled frequently against policymakers, economists and the financial media in the intervening years, and it seems that many commentators want to atone by predicting the next crisis.
The constant search for parallels with the Lehman collapse is understandable, but misguided; inviting edgy investors to flee at the first hint of trouble is bad for both one's wallet and one's nerves.
4 Timing is tricky Strategists often suggest going to cash prior to potential market-moving events such as the June 23rd Brexit vote, the idea being that investors should first wait for the smoke to clear. Getting back in is not always easy though, especially when stocks have staged a strong counterintuitive rally. 
Not only that, by the time the smoke has cleared, the next bout of uncertainty is often just around the corner. Asked recently about the prospect of Donald Trump winning the November presidential election, US financial strategist Gary Shilling suggested investors stick with cash until "the smoke clears". 
Such advice is not very practical for most people. Long-term investors will probably face "about one so-called market crisis a year", Vanguard founder and index fund guru John Bogle said after the Brexit vote. 
"Do you really want to get out of your long-term investments - and then try to jump back in at the right moment - say, 30 to 40 times in the next three or four decades?"
5 Prediction markets are fallible One month on, it's still unclear why prediction markets so badly underestimated the prospects of a vote for Brexit. In mid-June, almost every opinion poll showed the Leave camp to be in the lead. Polls in the last week suggested a shift to Remain, but the difference was very small, so why did bookmakers estimate the odds of leaving to be as low as 10 per cent on the day of the referendum? 
More crucially, why did the $5 trillion currency markets so casually assume the bookies were right? By the day of the vote, £1 was worth $1.50; sterling had reclaimed all the ground lost in the months leading up to the referendum, meaning that a Leave vote was being viewed as a near impossibility. 
Did markets place too much weight on past referendums, where voters turned more cautious close to polling day? Did pro-Remain voters stay at home because they believed their vote was not needed? Were affluent, pro-Remain investors oblivious to the anger of alienated Leave voters? Did the biases of expert forecasters somehow contaminate their models?
Larry Summers' judgment - "political science is an oxymoron" - may be a little harsh, but investors will surely agree that pundits and punters "should have humility going forward".
6 Prescience does not always mean profits Very few investors predicted Britain would vote for Brexit, but let's say you were one of the lucky few, would you have been able to profit from your prescience? 
As noted earlier, not many investors expected the biggest two-day global selloff in stock market history to be followed by the FTSE 100 quickly hitting 11-month highs or the S&P 500 hitting all-time highs. 
Economist John Maynard Keynes famously compared the stock market to a beauty contest where you are asked to identify the entrant that other people think to be the most beautiful. 
"It is not a case of choosing those that, to the best of one's judgment, are really the prettiest, nor even those that average opinion genuinely thinks the prettiest," said Keynes. "We have reached the third degree where we devote our intelligences to anticipating what average opinion expects the average opinion to be." 
The rollercoaster reaction to Brexit shows it may be easier to heed the advice of legendary author and investor Benjamin Graham rather than playing the beauty contest game. "In my nearly 50 years of experience in Wall Street", said Graham in 1963, "I've found that I know less and less about what the stock market is going to do, but I know more and more about what investors ought to do."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (88%); IRAQ (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               491 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit to hamper policing practices

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 232 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Tom Brady CLOSE policing cooperation between gardaí and forces in Northern Ireland and Britain will be seriously hampered post-Brexit - unless the UK can successfully negotiate similar arrangements.
The UK's decision to withdraw from the EU effectively scuppers the European Arrest Warrant (EAW), which has been the cornerstone of extradition agreements between the two jurisdictions for more than a decade.
The EAW replaced cumbersome extradition arrangements, which regularly ran into legal difficulties. It has been used to extradite suspects facing charges for criminal and terrorist offences between Ireland and other EU countries, including the UK, since 2004 and has speeded up the process by removing political and administrative obstacles and turning it into a system run entirely by the judiciary.
But Brexit means the EAW will no longer apply to the UK if a deal cannot be struck in the negotiations.
It also spells an end to the UK's involvement in Eurodac, which is the fingerprint database for identifying asylum seekers and irregular border crossers.
At the moment, all EU member states take part in Eurodac, as well as Norway, Iceland and Switzerland.
But the UK's future involvement will again be determined by the negotiations over the next two years.
Tánaiste Frances Fitzgerald said she was ready to work with the UK authorities to sort out the issues arising from the Leave vote.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORWAY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ICELAND (77%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               492 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: British prime minister keen to avoid 'return to borders of past'; British PM on first visit to North urges 'practical solution' to Brexit issues

BYLINE: Gerry Moriarty

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  British prime minister Theresa May said in Belfast that she wants a "practical solution" to the problems caused by Brexit and no one wants a return "to the borders of the past".
Ms May, on her first visit to Northern Ireland as prime minister, yesterday held talks lasting about 90 minutes at Stormont Castle with DUP First Minister Arlene Foster and the Sinn Féin Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness.
Ms Foster and Mr McGuinness, in separate comments after the meeting, said Ms May reflected the continuing divisions in Northern Ireland post-Brexit, while the prime minister described the talks as "constructive" and "positive".
Mr McGuinness said "there is absolutely no good news whatsoever about Brexit". He referred to how 56 per cent of the people of Northern Ireland voted for the UK to remain within the European Union.
"On the issue of Brexit, I speak for the people of the North. And the people of the North who are unionist, nationalist, republican have made it very clear that they see their future in Europe." 
Ms Foster said that, in the Assembly elections in May, the DUP won 38 seats while Sinn Féin secured 28.
"So, I think we jointly speak for the people of Northern Ireland. I speak for the unionist majority, he speaks for the nationalist majority. But together we should be looking to achieve what is best for all of the people of Northern Ireland," she said. 
Stabilise powersharing 
Rather than speak to journalists gathered outside Stormont Castle, Ms May made a statement and took one question from a pooled reporter in the castle.  
She said she wanted to achieve a Brexit deal with the EU which was "in the best interests of the whole of the United Kingdom". "If you look ahead, what is going to happen when the UK leaves the European Union is that, of course, Northern Ireland will have a border with the Republic of Ireland, which will remain a member of the European Union," said Ms May. 
"But we've had a Common Travel Area between the UK and the Republic of Ireland many years before either country was a member of the European Union. 
"Nobody wants to return to the borders of the past," she added. "What we do want to do is to find a way through this . . . a deal which is in the best interests of the whole of the United Kingdom." 
 Free movement The prime minister promised to deliver on last November's Fresh Start Agreement which was designed to stabilise the powersharing administration at Stormont. 
But she made it clear there would be no attempt to alter the UK referendum decision to quit Europe. "Brexit means Brexit. But we will be making a success of it and I am clear that the Northern Ireland Executive and the other devolved governments will be involved in our discussions as we set forward the UK position," she said. 
"I recognise there's a particular circumstance in Northern Ireland because of . . . the Republic of Ireland, that will be remaining in the EU. 
"We've had constructive talks about the will . . . to find a way through this which is in the best interests of Northern Ireland and the best interest of the United Kingdom as a whole." 
Ms Foster and Mr McGuinness held joint and separate talks with Ms May. 
Ms Foster said she and Mr McGuinness had "good discussions" with Ms May about the free movement of goods and people. 


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               493 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 11:24 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Business borrowing falls for first time this year; Uncertainty over Brexit and interest rates have seen company credit requests slump by value of more than £500m

BYLINE: Angela Monaghan

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 363 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Business borrowing dropped for the first time in 2016 last month, as companies delayed investment decisions because of uncertainty created by the EU referendum.
Mortgage borrowing also fell between May and June, in a sign that consumers were feeling less confident as the vote approached at the end of last month.
Borrowing by British companies outside the financial sectors fell by £526m last month to £262.4m, according to the latest monthly survey of high street lending by the British Banking Authority. 
Net mortgage borrowing fell to £1.4bn in June from £1.7bn in May. The number of mortgages approved for house purchase - excluding remortgages - fell by about 1,700 to 40,103.
Rebecca Harding, chief economist at the British Bankers' Association (BBA), said: "Business borrowing in June dropped for the first time in 2016, signalling that investment decisions were being delayed until after the vote.
"Mortgage lending and approvals also fell back in June but remain above the low levels seen in April following the introduction of the stamp duty surcharge." 
Harding said it was still too early to assess what impact the Brexit vote would have on bank lending and the wider UK economy.
"Overall, business confidence was clearly fragile in anticipation of the outcome of the vote, but these results are not a verdict on the health of the economy post-Brexit. We won't start to see that data come through until the autumn and any trends before then should not be over-interpreted." 
Samuel Tombs, chief UK economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said the latest survey evidence on house price expectations as well as profit warnings issued by estate agents since the vote, suggested mortgage demand had fallen further in recent weeks.
He said that although the Bank of England was expected to cut interest rates at its policy meeting next week, the lower cost of borrowing was unlikely to be fully passed on by high street banks.
"Although the monetary policy committee likely will cut interest rates next week, probably to 0.25% from 0.50% currently, banks likely will increase lending spreads to account for the higher risk of borrower default, due to the much weaker economic outlook." 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               494 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 11:01 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Capital & Counties slashes value of Earls Court site by 14% after Brexit; Property developer blames weakened sentiment in London residential market

BYLINE: Nick Fletcher

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 294 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Fallling London property prices in the wake of the Brexit vote have forced developer Capital & Counties to cut the value of a prime residential site at Earls Court by more than 14%.
In its half year update the company said London's long term economic and population growth trends would continue despite the referendum result but added:
 The downward movement in property valuations [at Earls Court] reflects the valuers' assessment of the weakened sentiment in the central London residential market following the EU referendum. While it is too early to market firm predictions [after the Brexit vote] we remain confident in our estates and current conditions on the ground remain positive. 
The value of its Covent Garden site, where new retail signings included Mulberry and Petersham Nurseries, increased by 3%. but this was not enough to prevent an overall fall in property values of nearly 4%.
The concerns about the outlook have helped push the company's shares down nearly 5% to 281.7p.
In a sell note, Peel Hunt analyst James Carswell said the fall in value was worse than expected:
 The Central London residential market remains under pressure and, with CapCo's sales rate still slow, we still expect to see a reduction in prices and a further hit to the valuation. We also expect Covent Garden's stellar growth rate to slow. The shares trade on a near 10% discount to net asset value versus the 15% sector average. Sell.  
At Stifel analys Miranda Cockburn was slightly more positive:
 Capco's shares are down 33% year to date underperforming the FTSE Real Estate sector by 23%. We expect investors to remain concerned about the outlook for the land value at Earls Court but this is offset by the continued strength of Covent Garden and we retain our hold rating. 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               495 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: City of London eyes 'equivalence' as post-Brexit link with EU; Financial services

BYLINE: Jim Brunsden and Alex Barker in Brussels

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 614 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: When Guernsey, a British crown dependency outside the EU, copied almost every comma of a European law on hedge funds into its own rule book it had a big prize in mind: a golden ticket that would simplify life for its offshore fund industry.
The idea was to take advantage of provisions in law that allow funds to tap potential investors across the EU, without the laborious process of seeking approval from every country they want to do business in. Yet Guernsey is still waiting for that right, which will only come once the EU finishes an evaluation with no fixed deadline.
London-based global banks and fund managers, safe in the single market, have never had to deal with such hold- ups; their ability to do business across Europe has been assured. But with Britain heading for the EU exit door , the future right to tap into Europe from London, known as "passporting", has been thrown into doubt.
There is another path set out in EU law for investors and bankers based overseas to do business in Europe - a route known as "equivalence". But it could be a much bumpier ride than what Britain is used to.
As the name suggests, equivalence offers market access to groups based in countries that can show that their financial sector regulation is just as tough as that of Europe. The possibility is set out in various pieces of EU regulation governing financial trading.
While some law firms and others have cited these provisions as offering a potential panacea for the City of London's post-Brexit concerns, policymakers warn of complications ahead.
"Getting agreement on equivalence isn't easy," Jonathan Hill, the British outgoing member of the European Commission who resigned in the wake of the Brexit vote , said in May, adding that even the rights secured were far more piecemeal than the passport. Ironically, equivalence is partly a British invention. The UK pushed for it to ensure Europe remained open for business with the world, little imagining it might one day need to call on them itself.
What is clear is that such a path would need considerable EU goodwill, something which may be in short supply after wrenching Brexit talks.
Requests for equivalence go through intense scrutiny. Companies or authorities applying are first vetted by the European Securities and Markets Authority, which brings together market watchdogs from all EU countries. Should it give a positive assessment, it is up to the commission to decide the next steps, but it has no deadline or compulsion to do so.
Kay Swinburne, a British Conservative member of the European Parliament, says this two-stage process "potentially makes life awkward".
Equivalence also requires countries to keep their rules aligned with those of Europe, without any say in what the EU does, a particular challenge given Brussels' tendency to update its standards every few years.
For Judith Hardt, head of the Swiss Finance Council, the fact equivalence exists is a sign of how Europe has "traditionally been much less protectionist than other jurisdictions" in the area of financial services.
"Unlike others, it has designed a system to allow third-country firms to passport in under their local rules," she points out. But it is the practice rather than the theory that has on occasion proved complicated.
While the EU has adopted a range of equivalence decisions in recent years for countries including Switzerland, Bermuda, Australia and Brazil, one example still haunts EU officials: the marathon talks needed before Brussels would accept that certain US trading rules were as tough as its own.
"That negotiation on that one narrow issue took four years, even though there was goodwill on both sides," Lord Hill pointed out.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GUERNSEY (92%); BELGIUM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               496 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Dismay as British PM says Brexit means border with North; Puts pressure on Kenny ahead of today's meeting

BYLINE: Kevin Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 292 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: BRITISH Prime Minister Theresa May has indicated there will have to be some changes to the Border in the wake of the Brexit result.
Ahead of a meeting with Taoiseach Enda Kenny in London today, Ms May said that when the UK leaves the European Union, "of course Northern Ireland will have a border with the Republic of Ireland".
However, she added that it would not be as severe as during the Troubles. "Nobody wants to return to the borders of the past," she said.
Her nuanced comments are not in sync with the Taoiseach's definitive stance that there "will not be a hard border from Dundalk to Derry".
And Fianna Fáil's foreign affairs spokesman Darragh O'Brien told the Irish Independent the new Conservative leader appeared to be "walking a difficult tightrope".
He described her statement after a meeting with members of the Northern Ireland Executive as "ambiguous". A significant part of Mr Kenny's meeting at No 10 Downing Street today will focus on the border arrangements.
Officials in Dublin last night said that if Ms May wanted to rule out a hard border "she would have done so by now".
However, they also noted that she has toned down her language on the border issue since the referendum result.
In advance of last month's vote, she said it would be "inconceivable" not to have any changes on border arrangements in the event of a Brexit. Today's talks will focus on trade, the Common Travel Area and the future of Europe post-Brexit.
It is expected that the two leaders will make a joint statement reaffirming their commitment to the Good Friday Agreement.
Reports, analysis: Page 11 Enjoying the opening day of Galway Races - between the showers - was Sandra Mullen from Tuam, Co Galway. Photo: Steve Humphreys REPORTS, P4-5. GALWAY PUNTER FREE INSIDE


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); IRELAND (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               497 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Dundrum owner happy with its post-Brexit trade

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 394 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Michael Cogley DUNDRUM-OWNER Hammerson has been pleased by the level of leasing and investment activity since the EU referendum in the UK, its chief executive has said.
Rental income at the UK-leasing firm has risen by 5.1pc to £167.7m ((EURO)200.2m) in the first six months of its financial year.
Hammerson alongside Allianz Real Estate completed the joint venture takeover of Dundrum Town Centre in July after concluding a consensual borrower agreement with previous owners Chartered Land. Hammerson chief executive David Atkins said he was pleased to deliver a set of "solid results" for the six-month period ending June 30.
"We have confidence in the resilience of our business model, which will underpin our ability to deliver robust income returns during and beyond this period of political and economic uncertainty in the UK," Mr Atkins said.
"We believe our European diversity, best in class retail portfolio and low capital commitments positions us to produce consistent operational results, as we have done in recent years."
Profit including valuation charges fell by 50.2pc to £162.5m in the period. Hammerson 'We have confidence in the resilience of our business model' said the major deviation in profit was down to one-off gains and losses made on the sale of properties as well as financing costs. The company's property portfolio rose in value by 7pc to £8.96bn.
Earnings per share at the firm jumped by 5.1pc to 14.3p while the interim dividend per share rose by 6.3pc to 10.1p.
In October Hammerson alongside Allianz purchased loans secured against a portfolio of assets that included Dundrum, the Pavilions in Swords, and the Ilac Centre from Nama.
In order to manage its Irish assets Hammerson has opened a new office in Dublin that will integrate the portfolio into its existing operating structure.
Dundrum, the prize asset of Project Jewel, has a 99pc occupancy rate, which is set to improve with the addition of burger chain Five Guys and potential expansion of Brown Thomas.
The Irish franchising rights of Five Guys is owned by the Desmond brothers who signed a lease to bring it to Dundrum in October of this year.
Brown Thomas has also entered into talks to double the size of its BT2 store in the shopping centre after the lease ends on its Grafton Street outlet.
Shares in Hammerson were hit by the Brexit vote, falling by around 7pc since June 23.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (67%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               498 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 12:50 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Forget Brexit, Quitaly is Europe's next worry; Sluggish growth and high levels of unemployment are reflected in the high level of non-performing loans that are now hobbling Italian banks

BYLINE: Larry Elliott Economics editor

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 323 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: First it was Grexit, then it was Brexit. Now the looming threat for Europe is Quitaly, the fear that Italy might decide it has had enough of the single currency and go back to the lira.
Put simply, Italy's economy is floundering and has been for the past two decades during which time there has been virtually no growth and Italian goods have become less and less competitive in export markets.
Sluggish growth and high levels of unemployment are reflected in the high level of non-performing loans  that are now hobbling Italian banks. Potential bad debts have almost doubled to (EURO)360bn (£300bn) in the past five years and now account for 18% of all outstanding loans.
What is clear, though, is that the non-performing loans reflect a non-performing economy. They are the symptom of the problem and not its cause.
Unlike Greece, Ireland or Spain, Italy did not go through a period of economic boom before the Great Recession of 2008-09. Instead, its performance has been unremittingly poor. The economy is 10% smaller than it was before the financial crisis and as a result unemployment is high, especially in the poorer southern half of the country.
 Related:  Vicenza: dark heart of Italy's banking crisis where locals have lost millions
In the days before it joined the euro, Italy would have been able to make itself more competitive by devaluing the lira. That option is no longer available.
The risk, therefore, is obvious. Europe suffers a fresh slowdown as a result of the shock imparted by Brexit. An already weak Italy suffers more than most and its banks start to fail. Small investors are told that European rules mean that they have to shoulder some of the losses.
Matteo Renzi's centre left government loses power and is replaced by the Five Star Movement, which has pledged to hold a referendum on leaving the euro. Given the state of the economy, Quitaly could not be ruled out. If it happened, the single currency would collapse.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ITALY (95%); EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (79%); GREECE (71%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               499 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday 9:47 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: FTSE edges higher but Barratt leads housebuilders down on Brexit fears; New worries about slowdown in housing market hit UK builders

BYLINE: Nick Fletcher

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 651 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Leading shares are edging higher after positive news from the likes of BT and GKN.
But housebuilders, which have been falling sharply on fears that the Brexit vote will hit the UK economy (and thus the housing market) hard, are under pressure again. Part of the reason is that analysts at Deutsche Bank have slashed their price targets albeit they are still positive on the sector. They say:
 Reflecting Brexit uncertainty we have reduced our forecasts for the UK Housebuilders to reflect a possible moderate downside scenario (-10% in volumes and pricing), in a bid to prove that even with these assumptions the sector offers strong investment opportunities. Our new assumptions have driven around 50% reduction in our EBIT estimates, and a near 60% reduction in profit befor tax in 2017. However despite this we forecast the sector to achieve an average return on capital employed of 15%, well above the comparable near 10% cost of capital pre tax. Government policy remains pivotal. Since 2007 new house building has been a key policy for the UK government, identifying it as a driver of economic growth, with government targeting (and reiterating since Brexit) 1m new homes 2015-2020. This target has been reiterated by government since the Brexit vote. With this in mind we see government policy as the key upside risk in our sector. The key policy which could provide upside we believe is Help to Buy equity loan where we believe a temporary increase in the equity stake taken by government to 30% (still remaining short of the 40% in the London Help to Buy product) could provide meaningful support to volumes, as could a short term stamp duty holiday at the lower end of the house price scale.  
But Deutsche's price target cuts, along with new figures showing mortgage approvals in June at their lowest level since March 2015, have helped push Barratt Developments 7.4p lower to 411.6p, Taylor Wimpey down 2.5p at 146.6p,  Berkeley Group down 33p to £25.94 and  Persimmon 19p lower to £16.09.
                     BP is the biggest faller, down 12.2p at 428.15p as the company missed second quarter profit expectations amid weak refining margins and the tumbling oil price.
But BT is 19p better at 406.5p on relief that regulator Ofcom had not said the company should split off its Openreach network business as a separate company.
Meanwhile GKN  has climbed 7.8p to 297.7p as the engineer said it was confident of its 2016 results and planned to cut costs by £30m to help lift next year's figures. In a buy note Sandy Morris at Jefferies said:
 Staying on course and delivering on guidance (before foreign exchange) strikes us as pretty good going given the number of ebbs and flows across each division, although it is precisely what GKN has done for at least the last three years. We believe 2016 will not - as GKN guided - be a vintage year in terms of organic growth, but the things that need to happen to position GKN for good organic growth from 2017 appear to be slotting into place. 
Overall the FTSE 100  is currently 16.33 points higher at 6726.46, ahead of a busy week of central bank news, with the US Federal Reserve starting a two day meeting and the Bank of Japan making its latest announcement on Friday.
The weak pound is providing support following renewed expectations of a UK rate cut next month. Tony Cross, market analyst at Trustnet Direct, said:
 London's FTSE-100 is bouncing higher in early trade although much of the support seems to be coming through from the pound taking another beating overnight, in the wake of news that Monetary Policy Committee members are becoming increasingly keen for fresh stimulus measures to be deployed. Although the Bank of England meet again to discuss rates next week, it had initially been thought that meaningful action would have to wait until we had a full quarter's worth of post-Brexit data on the table, but opinions here may now be shifting. 


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               500 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 26, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hard Choices; The open border dividing Ireland is unlikely to survive Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 546 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May went to Belfast yesterday to reassure the Irish that Brexit will not endanger the peace process. The prime minister insisted that she wanted to avoid any return to the hard border that once divided the north from the Republic of Ireland. Not many of her counterparts were convinced; the decision to leave the European Union has thrown to the wind the carefully constructed certainties on the island.
Anxiety is understandable. The prosperity of recent years has been based on the cross-border trade between these two members of the EU. Subsidies derived from the Common Agricultural Policy have kept struggling farmers above water. Migrant workers from elsewhere in the EU, above all those from Poland and the Baltic states, have kept hospitals and hotels functioning. Making Northern Ireland attractive to foreign investors has been an important plank in the economic strategy of the province's executive. Now overseas companies may need convincing that Northern Ireland is a strategically shrewd location to build a factory.
Above all, the cornerstone of peace on the island, the Good Friday agreement, is intimately bound up with shared EU membership. It declares that the governments of the United Kingdom and the Irish Republic wish "to develop still further the unique relationship between their peoples and the close co-operation between their countries as friendly neighbours and as partners in the European Union".
There are fears then that the removal of these building blocks will in some way destabilise the relationship between north and south. These should not be overstated. Power-sharing elements in Northern Ireland can persist even with one component outside the EU. Ultimately the success of the peace agreement depends on the political will of all sides. The referendum has not changed that. And it can be argued that the United States has played a more significant role than the EU in supporting the peace process.
Sooner rather than later, however, the prime minister will have to be less vague about the future of the north-south border, which will be the United Kingdom's sole land frontier with the EU. She promises practical solutions but it is difficult to see how the most practical arrangement of all - the common travel area which allows some 30,000 commuters to cross the border - can survive. Three options suggest themselves: a hardened border between the republic and Northern Ireland; a hardened border between the island of Ireland and Great Britain; or the adoption by the republic of whatever UK border controls are imposed at the end of Brexit negotiations. None of these options is easy. There are 300 crossing points and they defy effective policing. Many would have to be shut down. The superficially more attractive option of tight identity checks at entry points into Great Britain, such as the ports of Holyhead and Stranraer, will induce queasiness among unionists. And building a joint immigration policy with the Republic of Ireland is probably unworkable within the constraints of its EU membership.
Until Britain has presented its vision of its post-Brexit future these questions will remain unresolved. They are a reminder that the prime minister has years of tricky horse-trading ahead. And it's not just with Brussels.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               501 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Kenny plays steady hand after Brexit

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 224 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A STEADY hand is "more important" in politics than ever before, Taoiseach Enda Kenny has said.
In a veiled referenced to the pressure coming on his leadership of Fine Gael, Mr Kenny said no European leader knew where the union was going in the wake of Brexit.
He said the Ireland had learned from our past experiences and had "to continue learning and adapting and investing in the very challenging climate in which we now find ourselves".
The Taoiseach was speaking at the launch of 'Sixties Ireland', a book by Mary E Daly which charts the turbulent history of the country between 1957 and 1973.
Mr Kenny said there were many similarities between that period and now. "This time we will build from a position of strength and inherited experience," he said.
But he added: "Nobody has charted the way forward. Nobody knows what the way forward will be.
"Obviously events have moved and I congratulate Prime Minister May on her election," he said.
"The next clarity required is what is the intention of the British government? What is their objective? "What is it they want to follow through on the decision made by the people? "In modern times it's the unexpected, the issues that arise in different countries, different political system that need and require a steady hand.
"A clear compass point is more important in politics than ever before," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               502 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May (and Merkel) should play Brexit long

BYLINE: Philip Stephens on Global Politics

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: One by one, the rivals to replace David Cameron were found out. Boris Johnson, a chancer who thinks a smattering of Latin fair substitute for strategy or principle. Michael Gove, a political sociopath with a manifesto that read like an undergraduate essay. Andrea Leadsom, the hard-right's unelectable answer to Labour's far-left, and unelectable, Jeremy Corbyn. Theresa May 's stroll into Downing Street offered some hope that Britain has not gone completely mad.
Mr Johnson has the Foreign Office as a consolation prize. The hope must be that he is not too much of an embarrassment. The adage has it that politics always ends in failure. In Mr Cameron's case it was self-inflicted. He always preferred tactics to strategy. Add an inflated sense of his ability to get out of tight spots and an unhappy ending was inevitable. The big tactical swerve - a referendum offered in a vain attempt to appease Tory Europhobes - steered him, and the nation, into a brick wall.
There was not much dignity, I suppose, in the abruptness with which he was bundled out of Number 10 this week but then Brexit is the biggest political and foreign policy failure of postwar Britain. The 1956 Suez debacle was a small bump on the road by comparison. The prime minister who took Britain out of the EU and, quite possibly, broke the union of the United Kingdom as a consequence - not a happy epitaph.
Mrs May was the best choice available as his successor. She was on the pro-European side but stayed invisible during the campaign. Her reputation as a steely, competent home secretary is overdone. She dodged difficult decisions and failed to get a grip on border controls and the enforcement of immigration rules. Her success was surviving in a department more commonly considered a political graveyard. She has a reputation as a pragmatist and avoids histrionics. The process of government will become more formal and be better for it. In temperament she is not too far from Germany's Angela Merkel .
The policy vacuum left by the Brexit vote has thus far filled with wishful thinking . On the pro-European side, a cry of pain has been followed by insistence that the result need not be the final word. Lawyers have been hired, constitutional precedents consulted. If the people can decide to say goodbye to their own continent, surely they also have the right to change their mind? After all, buyers' remorse may set in as the economy slips towards recession.
Among the Leavers there is a let's-get-on-with-it hubris that says Britain can skip out of the EU the day after tomorrow. It will get a good deal because Germany wants to continue selling its cars and France its wine. Anyway, the latter-day Elizabethans declare, there is a world to be conquered beyond Europe's troubled shores. A sinking economy? Pro-European propaganda. These are people who invent their own facts.
It is possible, of course, that Britain could decide in the end to remain in the EU or to opt for something close to it such as associate membership. If we have learnt anything these past few weeks it is that politics can turn somersaults. A new prime minister will not change the reality that it will be difficult to secure broad political consent for any one of the many versions of "out". On the other hand, it is also conceivable, just, that a speedy and good-natured negotiation could see Britain leave on relatively favourable terms.
Politicians must deal in facts and probabilities rather than dreams. The process of unravelling four decades of political and economic integration will be complex, costly and frequently bad-tempered. The Britain that emerges will be weaker economically and have a smaller footprint internationally.
" Brexit means Brexit " is Mrs May's favourite phrase. It offers assurance to Tory Outers who worry about her commitment to withdrawal. It says nothing, though, about the shape of post-Brexit relations. The new prime minister has avoided showing her hand on where she wants to draw the balance between access to the single market and national control of immigration policy. This will be the subject of two sets of negotiations - the first with her own party, where the interests of business will collide with the ideology of Little Englanders, and then with the other 27 EU states. The former may be harder than the latter.
Mrs May will be told by the Brexiters to get on with it: set out your position clearly, trigger Article 50 and wrap up a deal as quickly as possible to put an end to uncertainty. The prime minister should ignore the pleas. The only hope she has of squaring half-a-dozen circles will be to play the negotiations long.
We are living through a period of political and economic upheaval - in Britain and in the rest of the continent. What Mrs May must hope is that over time the politically impossible becomes the possible; that compromises unacceptable today are seen as common sense a year or two hence.
Why should Europe wait? Listen to Ms Merkel. The chancellor quite rightly insists that the EU will not be bent out of shape to accommodate the British. But she prefers deliberation to rushed decisions. She understands it is in Europe's interest to rescue what can be salvaged from the wreckage and to emerge with relations with Britain on a reasonable footing. She also has an election to fight next year. So does President François Hollande of France. Changes to EU-wide migration rules may seem more attractive. A pause might just suit everyone.
philip.stephens@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: GERMANY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               503 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May puts own stamp on cabinet in cull of Cameron's 'Notting Hill set'; LEADERSHIP SHAKE-UP; Changes made to deliver on Brexit vote and to boost economy amid fears of slide into recession

BYLINE: George Parker and Jim Pickard

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1303 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May , Britain's new prime minister, has conducted a ruthless cull of David Cameron's old cabinet as she put together a new government with a rightwing flavour to deal with the political and economic fallout of Brexit.
Mr Cameron's modernising allies including George Osborne, his chancellor and right-hand man, and leading Brexiter Michael Gove were dispatched, as Mrs May sought to put her own stamp on a government that faces daunting challenges in the months ahead.
Mrs May not only changed her team but redesigned Whitehall, in a move to deliver on the Brexit vote and to boost the economy amid fears that it could be about to slide into recession.
The new prime minister has been seen until now as a cautious politician, but the sacking of Mr Osborne in almost her first act in office is a sign she intends to pursue a new economic strategy.
Mr Cameron's "Notting Hill set"was consigned to history in the reshuffle: Mr Osborne returns to the backbenches along with Mr Gove and Nick Boles, another in the Cameron network.
Philip Hammond, the new chancellor, said the economy was entering a "new phase", confirming that avoiding a prolonged recession was a bigger priority than hitting Mr Osborne's original target of a budget surplus by 2020.
On Wednesday Mrs May announced that three prominent Brexiters - Boris Johnson, David Davis and Liam Fox - would be put in charge of pushing through the delivery of the Leave vote.
Mr Johnson, the former London mayor who once described Hillary Clinton as looking "like a sadistic nurse in a mental hospital", is the new foreign secretary, while Mr Davis, Europe minister in the 1990s, heads the newly created Department for Exiting the European Union, charged with negotiating a departure. He wants to formally start divorce proceedings by early 2017.
Mr Fox, a former defence secretary, will be asked as head of a new international trade department to make good on claims by the Leave campaign that Britain could quickly agree new trade deals outside the EU.
Angus Robertson, leader of the Scottish National party at Westminster, called Mrs May's team "one of the most rightwing cabinets in the modern era".
Yesterday Mrs May turned her attention to a domestic agenda, with another Whitehall shake-up intended to boost the capacity of the British economy as it enters uncertain waters.
Greg Clark, moves from the local government department to head a sprawling new Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy department, intended to deliver Mrs May's economic reforms.
The premier supports state activism, including the issuance of Treasury project bonds for infrastructure.
Justine Greening, an ally of Mrs May, is promoted to run an expanded education department including universities and skills. Ms Greening, the first education minister educated at a state comprehensive school, was one of a number of women to be promoted by Mrs May, with Amber Rudd the highest flyer as the new home secretary.
Liz Truss is promoted from the environment department to justice, Karen Bradley becomes culture secretary and Priti Patel becomes international development secretary. Ms Patel's arrival may be seen by some as something of a punishment posting; many rightwing Tory MPs dislike the government's adherence to its promise to spend 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product on overseas aid.
Andrea Leadsom, the energy minister whose own bid for the Tory leadership was shortlived, was promoted to the cabinet as environment secretary. But despite Mrs May's promise to boost jobs for women, the number in cabinet rose only from seven to eight.
Chris Grayling becomes transport secretary, faced with the decision on where to build a runway for London. Mrs May's Maidenhead constituency lies on the flight path into Heathrow and she opposes a third runway there.
Steve Crabb, the work and pensions secretary who has faced allegations about his private life in recent days, announced he was stepping down.
Mrs May spoke on the telephone to Barack Obama, US president, to reassert her commitment to the "special relationship" and to stress that Britain would indeed leave the EU.
She also spoke to Jean-Claude Juncker, European Commission president, to reaffirm her commitment to a Brexit but to stress her wish for negotiations to be cordial.
Agenda
Energy move 'looks like an act of climate sabotage'
Theresa May's decision to abolish the Department of Energy and Climate Change in yesterday's ministerial reshuffle has provoked criticism from environmental groups and some MPs.
"It sends a terrible signal at the worst possible time," said James Thornton, chief executive of the ClientEarth legal group fighting the government to improve air quality standards.
"At a time when the challenge of climate change becomes ever more pressing, the government has scrapped the department devoted to tackling it."
Green party MEP Keith Taylor said the move "looks like an act of climate sabotage" while Friends of the Earth described it as "shocking".
Mrs May has shifted responsibility for energy issues to a new Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy headed by Greg Clark, formerly secretary of state for communities and local government.
Separately, former energy minister, Andrea Leadsom, a prominent Brexit campaigner who initially challenged Mrs May for the Tory leadership, has been promoted to secretary of state for the environment.
Mr Clark said he was looking forward to "delivering affordable, clean energy and tackling climate change", along with a comprehensive industrial strategy.
But the chair of the Commons energy and climate change committee, Scottish National party MP, Angus Brendan MacNeil, said he was "astonished" by the step given the uncertainty the Brexit vote had created about future energy investment and broader climate change issues. "Decc's disappearance raises urgent questions," he said, such as which department would take responsibility for energy and climate issues in negotiations to leave the EU.
The decision could also pose a challenge for more conventional energy companies which will have to compete with other industries for the attention of the business secretary.
North Sea oil and gas producers, for example, will be anxious for policy attention as they struggle with low prices and declining output.
Lawrence Slade, chief executive of Energy UK, the trade group for electricity generating companies, said his members would be as concerned as environmentalists to see a reiteration of the government's commitment to its carbon reduction targets to avoid a period of policy uncertainty.
"Companies are ready to deliver the billions of pounds of investment needed [to decarbonise the electricity system] but we need a clear policy framework to deliver it," said Mr Slade.
Gareth Stace, director of UK Steel, which represents the steel industry, said he hoped the business department would bring a more joined-up approach to industrial strategy.
Pilita Clark and Andrew Ward
Ups and downs Who's in and who's out of the cabinet
Greg Clark
Business minister
Promoted from previous job as communities and local government secretary
Andrea Leadsom
Environment secretary
Promoted from previous job as energy minister
Jeremy Hunt
Health secretary
Keeps his job as health secretary despite initial reports to the contrary
Chris Grayling
Transport minister
Promoted from previous job as leader of the Commons
Nicky Morgan
Sacked as education secretary
Replaced by Justine Greening, ex-international development secretary
Michael Gove
Sacked as justice secretary
Replaced by former environment secretary Elizabeth Truss
Stephen Crabb
Quit as work and pensions secretary
Mr Crabb resigned from the post and will be replaced by Damian Green
Oliver Letwin
Chancellor of Duchy of Lancaster sacked
Replaced by MP for the Derbyshire Dales, Patrick McLoughlin
Editorial Comment page 10 Comment page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); WESTMINSTER, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               504 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May sets out blueprint for a fast-track Brexit; ? End of UK austerity as new leader to kickstart economy with spending

BYLINE: Peter Dominiczak and Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 883 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: THERESA May's new Government has indicated it is prepared to spend in order to stabilise the economy, as it set out a blueprint for post-Brexit Britain.
In a major shift away from the era of austerity imposed by George Osborne, the former chancellor, his successor Philip Hammond suggested that his Treasury will borrow in order to invest in British infrastructure.
Mr Hammond said Mrs May's Government would "borrow and invest wisely" after the "shock" to the economy caused by the Brexit vote. His comments were welcomed by business groups, which urged the Chancellor to press ahead with investments.
The Prime Minister's new team began to plan for Britain's departure from the EU. David Davis, the new Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, suggested Britain would demand full control of its borders but would want to retain access to the single market.
Mr Davis believes Britain could start to feel the "economic benefit" of Brexit before the end of 2018.
Mr Hammond said yesterday Britain would come out the single market as part of its decision to leave the EU, but would negotiate access to the bloc.
"We will come out of the single market as a result of our decision to leave the European Union," Theresa May's new Chancellor said on radio.
"The question is how we negotiate with the European Union, not from the point of view of being members of it but from the point of view of being close neighbours and trade partners of it."
He added: "I would like to see us negotiating access to the single market for Britain's businesses, so we can go on selling our goods and services into the European Union market and indeed enjoying the benefits of consuming European Union goods and services here as we do now."
The blueprint for how to leave the EU was set out by Mr Davis in an article published earlier this week before his appointment to the Cabinet, but is expected to form the basis of his plans in the coming weeks.
Mr Hammond's comments appeared to signal a significant change in the Government's economic policy in the coming months.
Speaking on ITV News, the new Chancellor said: "Borrowing when the cost of money is cheap has some great attractions, but this country is already highly indebted and we need to be very careful about the signal we send to markets about our intentions. So it's about getting the balance right and making sure that we borrow and invest wisely where we can make big impacts on Britain's productivity."
Mr Hammond also spoke about "new parameters" to replace the strict timetable for reducing borrowing that was the main focus of Mr Osborne's time in the Treasury.
He said: "What we did in 2010 was exactly the right approach for the challenges that faced the British economy then. Now we are entering a new phase in the story of the British economy with the decision to leave the European Union. Our economy will change as we go forward to the future and will require a different set of parameters."
In a boost to middle earners, Mr Hammond made clear that he hopes to avoid tax rises.
Adam Marshall, acting director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: "We've been calling for a long time for an infrastructure investment boost and for the use of the government's fiscal credibility to make that investment boost while the cost of borrowing is low.
Mr Davis's "Brexit blueprint" states that trade talks with other countries should begin immediately and that Article 50 - which will trigger Britain's formal break from the EU - should be invoked by the end of the year, despite Mrs May previously saying that the process should not begin until 2017. The Government would have first to consult with administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and other business groups and unions.
Mr Davis set out his wish for the UK's EU relationship to be based on the current draft deal between the EU and Canada.
This would give the UK access to the single market without having to accept uncontrolled numbers of immigrants. Mr Davis said he had ruled out other models for Britain's future relationship with the EU, notably the Swiss agreement because that also allowed free movement of people.
He said that Britain should seek new free-trade agreements with "the biggest prospective markets as fast as possible", focusing initially on China, the US, Canada and Hong Kong.
Deals with other countries such as Australia, Brazil, India, South Korea, Japan, Mexico and South Africa would follow.
He also said the UK should "accelerate" the agreement of the controversial Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership deal with the US.
He added: "There is no reason why many of those cannot be achieved within two years."
Mr Davis suggested that Britain should start to wean itself off grants from Brussels well before the UK finally severs its links to the EU.
Sam Alderson, an economist at the Centre for Economics and Business Research said yesterday that the Government's decision to abandon a target of balancing the books by 2020 was the right decision.
"The correct tax cuts, such as a drop in corporation tax, and commitments to infrastructure spending over the coming years will provide a much more considerable boost to the attractiveness of the UK economy than striving to balance the books as soon as possible," he said. (© Daily Telegraph, London)
Graphic
British Prime Minister Theresa May hosts a reception for the Police Bravery Awards in the Garden of Number 10 Downing Street


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               505 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 2:55 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May tells Sturgeon Holyrood will be 'fully engaged' in article 50 decision; PM says Westminster government is 'willing to listen to options' over Brexit as she makes first official visit to Edinburgh

BYLINE: Libby Brooks Scotland correspondent

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has assured Nicola Sturgeon that she will not trigger article 50 until "a UK-wide approach" has been agreed for negotiations to leave the European Union.
The prime minister was speaking after a nearly hour-long meeting with the Scottish first minister, who has pledged to consider all options for maintaining Scotland's membership of the EU, including a second independence referendum.
May's choice of Edinburgh for her first official visit as prime minister highlights the Westminster government's sense of urgency in keeping the UK together after Scots voted 62% to 38% to remain in the EU.
 Related:  Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale: 'I don't want to choose between two unions'
The two women posed briefly for photographers outside the first minister's official residence, Bute House, before beginning their meeting It was only the third time that the pair had met, and their first formal one-to-one meeting.
After the talks, May told broadcasters outside Bute House: "I'm willing to listen to options and I've been very clear with the first minister today that I want the Scottish government to be fully engaged in our discussions." 
Describing the talks as positive, she added: "I have already said that I won't be triggering article 50 until I think that we have a UK approach and objectives for negotiations - I think it is important that we establish that before we trigger article 50."
Sturgeon reiterated on Thursday evening that she believed that, in order to protect Scotland's interests, "the best or only option may be to consider whether we want to become an independent country".
But May's official spokeswoman insisted that the prime minister believed the issue of Scottish independence had now been settled.
Before the meeting, she said: "It will be an opportunity to discuss how they are going to work together. An opportunity for the prime minister to underline to the first minister that she does want to make sure the UK government fully engages with the Scottish government on discussions around leaving the European Union.
"And with regard to a second referendum, the prime minister's view is that we have already had a referendum. It was legal, and fair, and the result was decisive." 
After meeting Sturgeon, May went on to attend a party event where she was introduced by Ruth Davidson, the leader of the Scottish Conservatives, who was a strong supporter of May's candidacy for leadership of the Westminster party.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (56%); SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               506 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Minoan warns of higher cost of holidays after Brexit vote

BYLINE: Greig Cameron

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 188 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Minoan Group has warned that the Brexit vote is likely to result in holidays becoming more expensive as the travel company reported a bigger interim loss in spite of a rise in the value of bookings.
The AIM-listed group is awaiting an appeal to see if its plan to develop part of the coastline in Crete into a tourist destination can go ahead.
A presidential decree granting permission for the long-awaited project was issued by Greece in March but environmental appeals have been lodged. Christopher Egleton, chairman, said yesterday that they were due to be heard in the Greek Council of State in mid-September.
The court has previously upheld the the decree on two occasions, so Mr Egleton hopes that an early decision can be reached.
Minoan's travel division, which includes the Stewart Travel high street brand, said that the gross value of bookings rose more than 15 per cent to £33.1 million in the six months to April 30, raising earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation by 12 per cent to £332,000. Pre-tax profit for the division came in at £57,000, compared with £112,000.
Minoan shares were flat at 6.75p.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: GREECE (71%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               507 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Office glut grows over Brexit fears

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 138 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: London is experiencing a growing glut of office space after demand from prospective tenants dried up because of Brexit uncertainty (Patrick Hosking writes).
Demand for central London office space fell by 22 per cent between the first and second quarters of this year while supply mushroomed, according to the property consultants CBRE.
Take-up of space dropped to 2.4 million sq ft in the quarter, while the supply of additional space increased for the fifth successive quarter to 13.3 million sq ft, more than five times as much. "EU uncertainty weighed on the minds of businesses operating in the capital," CBRE said, adding that it expected demand to remain subdued in the short term. It warned that the upward trend in office availability was likely to continue because of a strong pipeline of newly built space coming onstream.
Graphic
PETER MACDIARMID/GETTY


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               508 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Philip May's boss sees Brexit opportunity

BYLINE: Marcus Leroux;Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 570 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The American fund manager that employs Theresa May's husband has said that it intends to use market uncertainty after Britain's withdrawal from the European Union as a "buying opportunity", raising a potential conflict of interest.
Philip May, the prime minister's husband of 36 years, is a client relationship manager at Capital International, part of Capital Group.
Rob Lovelace, president of Capital and grandson of its founder, has said that the referendum result is "the beginning of a process" rather than a "bimodal event" and that the uncertainty could create investment opportunities.
Capital primarily invests pension savings in companies quoted on stock exchanges and it is Mr May's job to liaise with the pension funds that are Capital's clients. He does not manage funds.
In a statement released on the morning of the Brexit result, Mr Lovelace said: "The key point to remember is, this referendum is the beginning of a proknows cess, it's not the end. The market has interpreted this is as a bimodal event and it isn't. Now that the referendum has passed, we start a two-year process of negotiations.
"Markets are reacting negatively to the uncertainty. Markets hate www.uncertainty.UK equity prices may continue to decline and the economy may suffer in the short term. But as someone who can take a long-term view, I would regard it as a buying opportunity."
Insights into negotiations with the EU could be lucrative for investors. Mr May has spoken of the importance for fund managers to stay ahead of events. "In this business you're paid for making correct anticipations, not for reacting to news," he told The Wall Street Journal in 1996.
code, ministers must provide a list of interests that could give rise to a conflict on every new appointment. The interests include those of a spouse. The code states that ministers "should be guided by the general principle that they should either dispose of the interest giving rise to the conflict or take steps to prevent it".
Capital Group, which did not comment, has a reputation for being a low-key and conservative player. It only recently started advertising its funds to private investors. A Downing Street source said: "In accordance with the ministerial code, Philip's interests have been disclosed in full to the Cabinet Office to ensure all the necessary arrangements are put in place to make sure there is no potential conflict of interest." Mr May has worked for the company since 2007.
One former colleague described him as "very honourable, very respectful" and a "very private individual". On the culture of Capital Group, he said: "It's respectful. It's privately owned, which makes it different."
Friends say that Mr May has a reputation for listening to other people and reporting back to his wife. Others describe him as someone who is very quiet, with integrity, who would "never trade off his wife's name".
The couple met as students at the University of Oxford. Benazir Bhutto, who went on to become prime minister of Pakistan, introduced them at a Conservative Association disco.
In his final year he became president of the Oxford Union. Mr May toyed with politics himself, becoming chairman of the Wimbledon Conservative Association, but stepped back when his wife's career took off.
The couple married in 1980, but tragedy struck a year later when Mrs May's father, the Rev Hubert Brasier, was killed in a car crash and her mother died a year later.
Graphic
Under the ministerial Philip May's job at Capital International involves liaising with pension funds


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               509 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Philip May's boss sees Brexit 'opportunity'

BYLINE: Marcus Leroux; Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 571 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The American fund manager that employs Theresa May's husband has said that it intends to use market uncertainty after Britain's withdrawal from the European Union as a "buying opportunity", raising a potential conflict of interest.
Philip May, the prime minister's husband of 36 years, is a client relationship manager at Capital International, part of Capital Group.
Rob Lovelace, the president of Capital and grandson of its founder, has said that the referendum result is "the beginning of a process" rather than a "bimodal event" and that the uncertainty could create investment opportunities.
Capital primarily invests pension savings in companies quoted on stock exchanges and it is Mr May's job to liaise with the pension funds that are Capital's clients. He does not manage funds.
In a statement released on the morning of the Brexit result, Mr Lovelace said: "The key point to remember is, this referendum is the beginning of a proknows cess, it's not the end. The market has interpreted this is as a bimodal event and it isn't. Now that the referendum has passed, we start a two-year process of negotiations.
"Markets are reacting negatively to the uncertainty. Markets hate www.uncertainty.UK equity prices may continue to decline and the economy may suffer in the short term. But as someone who can take a long-term view, I would regard it as a buying opportunity."
Insights into negotiations with the EU could be lucrative for investors. Mr May has spoken of the importance for fund managers to stay ahead of events. "In this business you're paid for making correct anticipations, not for reacting to news," he told The Wall Street Journal in 1996.
code, ministers must provide a list of interests that could give rise to a conflict on every new appointment. The interests include those of a spouse. The code states that ministers "should be guided by the general principle that they should either dispose of the interest giving rise to the conflict or take steps to prevent it".
Capital Group, which did not comment, has a reputation for being a low-key and conservative player. It only recently started advertising its funds to private investors. A Downing Street source said: "In accordance with the ministerial code, Philip's interests have been disclosed in full to the Cabinet Office to ensure all the necessary arrangements are put in place to make sure there is no potential conflict of interest." Mr May has worked for the company since 2007.
One former colleague described him as "very honourable, very respectful" and a "very private individual". On the culture of Capital Group, he said: "It's respectful. It's privately owned, which makes it different."
Friends say that Mr May has a reputation for listening to other people and reporting back to his wife. Others describe him as someone who is very quiet, with integrity, who would "never trade off his wife's name".
The couple met as students at the University of Oxford. Benazir Bhutto, who went on to become prime minister of Pakistan, introduced them at a Conservative Association disco.
In his final year he became president of the Oxford Union. Mr May toyed with politics himself, becoming chairman of the Wimbledon Conservative Association, but stepped back when his wife's career took off.
The couple married in 1980, but tragedy struck a year later when Mrs May's father, the Rev Hubert Brasier, was killed in a car crash and her mother died a year later.
Graphic
Under the ministerial Philip May's job at Capital International involves liaising with pension funds


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               510 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Red Box What's next for Brexit Britain?

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 22 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Wake up to our free morning email Matt Chorley guides you through the day's essential political stories www.thetimes.co.uk /redboxemail


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               511 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Smith pledges to campaign for new Brexit poll; LEADERSHIP SHAKE-UP; Labour leadership: Welsh contender

BYLINE: Jim Pickard, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 501 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Owen Smith, one of the challengers to Jeremy Corbyn for the Labour leadership, has promised to campaign for a new vote on a Brexit deal once the negotiations are complete.
Mr Smith, who will formally launch his bid to be leader today, said yesterday that if he got the job he would push for an early election or another referendum. The move echoes a similar promise by Tim Farron, leader of the Liberal Democrats, who has said his party will pledge in its election manifesto to derail Brexit.
Mr Smith said he respected the decision of those who had voted "in good faith" to leave the EU. But the Pontypridd MP added he had encountered many who regretted their decision and were upset over being "clearly misled" by the Leave campaign.
"That does mean a second referendum or a general election when the terms are clear. The Labour government should be committing to that," he told The Guardian.
His position is markedly more enthusiastic about the EU than Mr Corbyn, who gave only halfhearted support to the Remain side.
Mr Smith, former shadow work and pensions secretary, announced on Wednesday that he would stand against Mr Corbyn in the race sparked by a leadership challenge by Angela Eagle earlier in the week.
The Welsh MP said that either Ms Eagle or he ought to stand aside, depending on support, to create a "unity candidate" to challenge the incumbent. "Ideally, we would have one candidate, and the clarity of that one candidate versus Jeremy Corbyn," he said.
But Ms Eagle has not agreed to make way if she gets the support of fewer MPs than her rival: "I will leave Owen to do his own thing, I'll do my own thing," she said this week.
An attempt to thwart Mr Corbyn by forcing him to get the backing of 51 MPs to get on the ballot sheet failed on Tuesday when a meeting of the party's National Executive Committee ruled in his favour.
Allies of Mr Corbyn are now discussing how to oust Iain McNicol , the party's general secretary, for his involvement in the NEC meeting.
Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that a Labour donor is planning to mount a legal challenge against the NEC for its decision. Michael Foster, a former parliamentary candidate, was to lodge the application at the High Court yesterday afternoon.
"The issue raised by my application to the court is the proper interpretation of the rules of the party," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme, saying the matter was "essentially a legal issue".
The challenge has been criticised both by Mr Corbyn's team and by his opponents in the Parliamentary Labour party. Tom Watson, deputy leader - and one of the few remaining moderates in the shadow cabinet - called it "unhelpful and destabilising" to the party.
"The NEC made a decision. They ruled that Jeremy Corbyn is automatically on the ballot paper," he said. "We must respect that decision and give our members a choice of candidates as soon as possible."
Mr Foster is a former show business agent and member of Labour Friends of Israel. He has given the party more than £400,000 since 2010.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: WALES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               512 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Sterling up as interest rates kept on hold; Rates stay at 0.5 per cent despite an expected cut to soften Brexit impact

BYLINE: Denis Staunton

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Sterling jumped on foreign exchange markets after the Bank of England left interest rates unchanged at 0.5 per cent, despite expectations of a cut to soften the economic impact of the decision to leave the EU. 
Sterling later eased back from its two-week high on the belief a cut would happen soon.
Sterling soared to as high as $1.3480 after the rate announcement, up more than 2 per cent on the day and its strongest since June 30th. It later pared those gains to trade at $1.3335, up 1.4 per cent. 
Traders said the bounce is unlikely to last long given the expectations of easier monetary policy. 
The bank's monetary policy committee voted by eight to one against a cut to 0.25 per cent, yet it acknowledged signs of a weakening economy since the referendum. 
The committee suggested that the decision on cutting interest rates had been deferred rather than rejected, signalling a likely easing in August.
"In the absence of a further worsening in the trade-off between supporting growth and returning inflation to target on a sustainable basis, most members of the committee expect monetary policy to be loosened in August," it said. 
Sentiment
 Official data on economic activity since the referendum is not yet available but the committee said there were signs the result has affected sentiment among households and companies.  
"Early indications from surveys and from contacts of the bank's agents suggest some businesses are beginning to delay investment projects and postpone recruitment.
"Regarding the housing market, survey data point to a significant weakening in expected activity. Taken together these indicators suggest economic activity is likely to weaken in the near term," it said.
Earlier, incoming chancellor of the exchequer Philip Hammond signalled a change in economic policy, abandoning George Osborne's deficit-reduction target and ruling out a new austerity budget. Before the referendum Mr Osborne had warned that if Britain voted for Brexit a harsh emergency budget would be needed to plug a likely hole in public finances. 
Success
 "Our economy will change as we go forward, and it will require a different set of parameters to measure success," Mr Hammond told the BBC.  
"Of course we have got to reduce the deficit further, but looking at how and when and at what pace we do that, and how we measure our progress in doing that, is something that we now need to consider in light of the new circumstances that the economy is facing."
He also appeared to rule out a post-Brexit deal which would keep Britain inside the European single market after it leaves the EU. He said Britain would leave the single market but hoped it would have access to it.
"We will come out of the single market as a result of our decision to leave the European Union. The question is how we negotiate with the European Union, not from the point of view of being members but from the point of view of being close neighbours and trade partners." 
Sterling plunged more than 13 per cent against the dollar in the days after the vote and trillions of dollars were wiped off stock markets globally. However, the quick appointment on Wednesday of Theresa May as prime minister helped settle nerves in financial markets.
The governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, sent a clear signal two weeks ago that stimulus was on the way over the summer in an attempt to show the economy was in safe hands as the country's political leadership crumbled after the vote.
However, he has also suggested he does not favour a sharp cut in borrowing costs because of the possible impact on banks based in Britain, and he has said he does not want to follow the example of the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan by cutting rates below zero.
"The bigger surprise is...that the Bank of England was ready to disappoint market expectations so soon after the Brexit vote," said Michael Metcalfe, head of Global Macro Strategy, State Street Global Markets. 
"While a rate cut can still come at the next meeting, the delay hints at concern about the inflationary impact of sterling weakness and some uncertainty as to how rapidly the economy will actually slow." 
Data released early yesterday showed interest among buyers in Britain's housing market tumbled to its lowest level since mid-2008. - (Additional reporting Reuters)


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               513 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 8:11 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May and Nicola Sturgeon: up the Clyde without a bargepole; The 'UK approach' to Brexit agreed by the prime minister and the first minister does not alter the fact: if England's out, we're out too - and extremely pissed off

BYLINE: Deborah Orr

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 979 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A couple of fun-packed weeks ago, when Theresa May launched her leadership bid, she wore her Vivienne Westwood Black Watch tartan suit. It was best not to wear it when visiting Scotland in her first diplomatic trip as Westminster's prime minister. As a stylish British outfit, the suit cannot be faulted. As a sartorial message to the Scots of the union, which May says is "precious" to her, it's more ambiguous.
 Related:  May tells Sturgeon Holyrood will be 'fully engaged' in EU talks
The Black Watch, Scotland's senior regiment of Highlanders, fought for Britain in two world wars, but was stripped by Westminster of its individual identity in 2006. The first play mounted by the new National Theatre of Scotland, itself a symbol of heightened Scottish identity after devolution, was Black Watch, by Gregory Burke. The critical and popular hit marked the bitter passing of the regiment, largely drawing on interviews with men who had seen service in Iraq. Awkward.
Westwood is an enthusiastic supporter of Scottish independence herself. The fashion designer says she is "very unpatriotic about England" and expresses disappointment that Scotland rejected independence in 2014. All the suit says to the people of Scotland is: "Look. I'm patronising you. Heather. Whisky. Tartan. That's you, that is." These are sentimental badges of patriotism that Scots are more than able to exploit for ourselves, thanks very much.
Shallow cultural appropriation is all the more annoying when your domineering neighbour has just committed an astonishing act of international political vandalism and roped you in against your wishes.
Scotland's not-prime minister, Nicola Sturgeon, can talk all she wants about having a second referendum and about Scotland becoming independent and staying in Europe. Indeed, it's hard to see how Scotland could be denied another referendum before something as constitutionally significant as the triggering of article 50.
But, whatever the result of any second vote, the truth is that the United Kingdom union is not like the European Union.Which is a shame: under arrangements more like the EU, Scotland would have a veto over its confused, angry and irrational neighbour, and could save England from itself. It may come to pass that the "UK approach" May has agreed with Sturgeon will end up tantamount to a veto anyway. But otherwise, all Scotland can do is either suck it up or try to leave the UK while trying to stay in the EU.
Which would just make an insanely complex, expensive and pointless process of Brexit just that little bit more insanely complex, expensive and pointless. The harsh truth is that Scottish independence is less likely, practically speaking, if both Scotland and England don't remain in the EU. Borders with England? No free movement? Tariffs to trade with our biggest partners, sometimes a dog-walk away? Where's the logic? If England's out, we're out too. And extremely, extremely, pissed off.
The great irony is that Scotland did try to get Westminster to see sense on this present and future nightmare years ago. Before the EU referendum, back when Brexiteers were so keen on explaining how the politicians of Brussels were "sclerotic", "incapable of reform" and "disconnected from the people", Scots remained less susceptible to these arguments because so many of us have been saying the same thing of Westminster for decades.
Early in the Thatcher years we rejected the Westminster Tories and embraced Labour more tightly. When Labour gained power, and remained disappointingly keen on Thatcher's sod-you Loadsamoney ideology, we pinned our hopes on the Westminster Lib Dems. We were voting, in part, for electoral reform in Westminster and an end to the two-party system. We hoped England would get it too.
But no. Or not enough, anyway. Scots like me watched, in increasing disbelief, as even after Iraq the English left kept on voting Labour, until its overly generous accommodations with corporate globalisation - which Scots were all too familiar with, thanks to the abrasive greed of none other than the Royal Bank of Scotland, and the naive appeasement of none other than Gordon Brown - helped to crash the economy.
I'd rather be a bad loser than an opportunistic 'winner'. Like most Scots
The Conservatives and then Labour didn't listen as Scotland rejected them. Neither party is listening even now. The result of the dereliction both parties are guilty of is that the politics of England and Scotland is dominated by nationalist parties: Scotland honestly and directly through the election of an SNP government; England dishonestly and indirectly through the machinations of Ukip and Nigel Farage, who dictated Cameron's supposedly clever but actually idiotic idea, whereby "the nation" would get to choose whether it stayed in the EU. And now, we are where we are - up the Clyde without a bargepole. D'oh!
Why is Britain leaving the EU? Why do we think free movement is an abomination, at a time when 65 million of our fellow humans are refugees ? Because, we're politically debased, arrogant atavists. Because, decades ago, Westminster rejected the postwar settlement in Europe, and chose instead to align with the US - embracing its anti-Keynsian economics, its belief that it could spread liberal democracy through the barrel of a gun - and generally joining with its former colony to carry on believing that other countries were there to be controlled and exploited, rather than cooperated with for mutual benefit.
And to reject all this cynical hypocrisy, the triumphant barbarism of the Brexiteers' dictates, is to be "a bad loser". Who wants to be a bad loser? Not Theresa May, the formerly remain home secretary who now says "Brexit means Brexit" because that's how to win a leadership contest. I'd rather be a bad loser than an opportunistic "winner". Like most Scots, I have little in the way of other choices.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (98%); IRAQ (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               514 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday 6:35 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK turns to Canada for advice on striking post-Brexit trade deals with EU; Canadian minister in talks about how it secured Ceta trade deal with Brussels, which took seven years to finalise

BYLINE: Sarah Butler and Angela Monaghan

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 642 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK has sought advice from Canada on how to secure a trade agreement with the EU following the Brexit vote, the Canadian trade minister has said.
Chrystia Freeland told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that her team had been having "technical exchanges" with Britain about Canada's recently finalised deal with the EU. 
She was speaking before a meeting with Liam Fox, the UK's secretary of state for international trade.
"As members of the Commonwealth they agreed to build a stronger, closer relationship in a number of areas including trade and prosperity," a spokesperson for the new department said. "The ministers expressed a wish to work together better to promote the opportunities and benefits of globalisation and to think about how to get more SMEs exporting ."
On Thursday, David Davis, the minister for Brexit, said his preferred model for the UK's continuing relationship with the EU is Canada's comprehensive and economic trade agreement (Ceta).
Speaking on Friday, Freeland said: "We have been sharing, at a technical level, details of how Ceta works." 
However, she said securing such deals was "very, very complicated. There are 300 trade negotiators in Canada. It takes a big expert team to negotiate trade agreements."
The UK does not have the expertise to negotiate trade deals, as for decades agreements have been conducted at EU level. Whitehall is scouring business, the European commission, and friendly countries including Canada for trade specialists to help lead talks. 
                     The government has said it plans to hire up to 300 staff to try to address a shortage of trade negotiators capable of forging closer economic ties to dozens of other countries. Oliver Letwin, who was going to run the Brexit unit before losing his role in Theresa May's cabinet overhaul, told the BBC: "We don't have trade negotiators because the trade negotiation has been going on in the EU so we are going to have to hire a whole - David Davis is going to have to hire - group to deal with the EU negotiations, and Liam Fox, of course, in what I think is an excellent plan of Theresa's to create a new Department of International Trade." 
 Related:  Global trade deals will be bigger outside than in the EU, says David Davis
Gregor Irwin, chief economist at the Global Counsel consultancy and a former chief economist at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, said the government had people who understood trade policy, but did not have negotiators.
"No doubt people will have to be brought in from outside. They will look to get people wherever they can find them, and Canada and New Zealand would be good places to look. This is a huge agenda and it's a long process."
Davis has said that article 50, the formal process for negotiating the UK's exit from the EU, should not be triggered until the end of the year, from when Britain would have two years to negotiate its trading terms with the 27-nation bloc. 
Canada took seven years to finalise its deal with the EU and it is not expected to be implemented until 2017.
A top US trade official said on Thursday that he had held preliminary discussions with British officials about how the two countries could pursue bilateral trade relations post Brexit.
Freeland said Canada had secured a "gold standard" deal with the EU. However, she made clear that while it had secured "ambitious services agreements", it would not enjoy the same level of "passporting" that the UK currently has as a member state - a status that enables banks and financial services businesses to trade freely.
The Canadian deal also does not offer the same level of freedom of movement for professionals as that within EU member states. While the control of borders and worker movement is something Brexiters have argued for, Freeland said: "Canada's position is to be ambitious in mobility. We think that facilitates trade."


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               515 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: US holds talks with UK on trade deal options after Brexit; Bilateral pact

BYLINE: Shawn Donnan in Washington

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 482 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Obama administration has held preliminary discussions with senior UK officials about how they might pursue a trade agreement between the two countries following Britain's exit from the EU, according to Washington's top trade official.
The discussions, which Mike Froman, the US trade representative, revealed yesterday, have coincided with a growing push by Republican Brexit supporters in Congress for President Barack Obama to quickly launch talks on a commercial pact.
They also highlight how quickly the president and his administration have backed away from his warnings before last month's referendum that Britain would be at the "back of the queue" for any trade deals with the US if it voted to leave the EU.
Mr Froman said he had discussed Britain's plans and a possible bilateral trade pact with a number of senior British officials since the referendum. In the past week alone he spoke with Sajid Javid and Mark Price, the UK's outgoing business secretary and trade minister. He had not yet spoken with Liam Fox, the incoming minister for international trade in the new government of Theresa May, who took over as the UK's prime minister on Wednesday.
But Mr Froman warned that there was still significant uncertainty surrounding what sort of agreement the US and UK would or could negotiate, primarily because a lot depended on the exit deal and trading relationship with the EU which Mrs May's government ended up negotiating.
"What precisely they negotiate with their other trading partners will depend in part on what model they develop in their relationship with the EU," Mr Froman told a breakfast discussion organised by the Christian Science Monitor.
"Will they have sovereignty over tariffs? Will they have sovereignty over regulations? . . . Until you get more clarity around that it's hard to determine precisely what kind of trade relationship they might be able to negotiate with others."
Members of the EU are not allowed to negotiate their own trade deals with other countries outside the bloc. However, Mr Froman said British officials clearly believed that they could have "discussions" with the US and other trading partners while the UK was still in the EU.
"Where discussions end and negotiations begin I think is quite a grey area and I think this is something we are going to have to continue having dialogue about," he said.
The UK's vote to leave the EU, Mr Froman said, was also prompting the US to re-evaluate the potential terms of its three-year-old negotiations with the EU over a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, with Britain accounting for 25 per cent of US exports to the EU. "The UK is a very significant part of the EU and a very significant part of what makes TTIP attractive," Mr Froman said.
Among the options being batted around was the idea that the UK might join a TTIP deal once it had worked out its relationship with the EU, he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GB United Kingdom; US United States of America; XR Americas; XG Europe; XB North America; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               516 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Using Brexit to our advantage; Letters &Editorial Comment

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 159 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: ¦ The recent Brexit vote, placing the United Kingdom outside the European Union together with it some 500 million consumers, gives Ireland a unique opportunity to attract foreign direct investment to its shores in the coming years.
As the only English-speaking country within the EU, it will have many advantages over its competitors, such as its low corporation tax and a welleducated workforce, to encourage those multinationals to relocate.
We must now grow and develop and sell on the world stage, our towns and cities like Limerick ,Ennis, Galway, Tuam, Castlebar, Ballina, Sligo, Tubbercurry, Carrick-on-Shannon, Longford, Athlone, Ballyshannon and Monaghan Town.
We also have Shannon and Knock international airports ideally situated to service these hubs. All of these locations have plenty of scope for development and would be ideal locations to avail of our new status as Europe's only Englishspeaking gateway to the EU.
Tom Towey Cloonacool, Co Sligo


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               517 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 15, 2016 Friday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: What's next for Brexit Britain[...]

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 29 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Red Box What's next for Brexit Britain? Wake up to our free morning email Matt Chorley guides you through the day's essential political stories www.thetimes.co.uk /redboxemail


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               518 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: A battle of wills between May and Davis is a Brexit accident just waiting to happen

BYLINE: Gerard O'Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 794 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: 'BREXIT means Brexit,'' said Theresa May in the authoritative, self-assured tone favoured by a politician enthralled at suddenly achieving high office.
Yet on closer scrutiny, it seemed as if she was trying to convince herself that there is a surety about the future which is simply not there.
The reality is that she now has to manage a group of very rightwing Tories who, for ideological and other reasons, are determined to play Russian roulette with the British economy. That's going to be quite a task.
As one observer astutely put it: "She was trying to sound a little gung-ho, but it had all the enthusiasm of somebody clapping with one hand.'' Her own conflicted views on Brexit suggest that she is torn between the emotional tug of the UK going it alone, while deeply aware that membership of the Brussels club helps pay more than a few bills for the British public.
Her dithering approach to this dilemma was best reflected in the recent referendum when she was tagged 'a reluctant Remainer'. But now that she is in the hottest of all the hot seats in UK politics, decision time on a whole host of issues will come sooner rather than later.
And only time will tell whether her decision to appoint a triumvirate of Brexit heavy hitters to key cabinet jobs was a stroke of genius or a move which will eventually haunt her premiership.
On this side of the Irish Sea, we need to track carefully the words and actions of foreign secretary Boris Johnson, international trade secretary Liam Fox and, most of all, David Davis, the man now with the title 'Brexit secretary'.
Contrary to popular opinion, Boris Johnson may be the least of our worries; the caricature of the buffoonish and gaff-prone former mayor of London masks an intelligent and perceptive politician. In fact, he may not be all that sound on the Brexit question, which could be of benefit to Ireland.
It's not that long ago that he believed Britain's future lay within the bosom of the European Union, before personal political ambition and sundry other matters, wooed him over to the 'Leave' galaxy.
However, his capacity to cause personal offence may prove his undoing. The signs are that US president Barack Obama is still deeply angry over the taunt that his family links in Kenya mean he resents Britain because of its colonial past.
Given his portfolio, Liam Fox will be central to any discussions between Ireland and our nearest neighbour, if we are to try and wangle some special trade deal, which will not cause a rumpus with our EU partners.
In that role, he is as yet an unknown quantity. But in the lineage of the Tory party he would be considered possibly more rightwing than Margaret Thatcher. We can therefore assume that he will have little emotional empathy with the position of the Republic of Ireland in a newly realigned Europe.
David Davis is cut from the same cloth as Fox and will also have little instinctive sympathy for the Irish south of the Border. He has for many years been the Conservative Party's 'hard man' in favour of Brexit.
Basically, he wants to do some sort of deal with the EU and get out as fast as possible.
Such is his hurry to wave a final goodbye to the Germans, French, Italians etc that he is already proclaiming that "independence'' will be achieved by 2018.
Davis says he would like formal exit negotiations to be triggered early next year. But whether or not the steady-as-she-goes, risk-averse, new prime minister will want to move so fast remains intriguing.
It all points to a number of heavy personality clashes - driven by ego and the taking of fixed positions - within this new cabinet.
A battle of wills between Theresa May and David Davis may well be a big-time political accident waiting to happen.
ONE way or another, this government will be fraught with tension, once a very short honeymoon period ends. As of now, the momentum is towards a 'hard Brexit'. Davis, for one, will not be happy with anything less than a formal break with the EU, with total and complete control over immigration into the UK residing with the British authorities.
Meanwhile, we had some fanciful comments about Enda Kenny's alleged lack of success earlier this week in getting Angela Merkel to acknowledge our 'special position' in the current scheme of things. A German-Irish meeting of minds, of course, was never going to happen at this point in time.
The reality is that the Chancellor does not even know herself how matters are going to pan out over the coming months, never mind further down the road.
Like us all, Europe's most powerful woman is still trying to read the body language coming from Downing Street.
Maybe we will have to wait until we see Theresa May clapping with both hands. That will be a sure sign the Brexit ship has started to sail - if sail it will.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (90%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (71%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               519 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bank 'must flex its muscles'; Haldane calls for sledgehammer approach to beat Brexit aftershock

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 541 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Bank of England must act "promptly as well as muscularly" next month with a package of measures to cushion the blow from Brexit, its chief economist has urged, as he warned that the economic aftershock could last three years.
In the clearest sign yet that the Bank will launch a significant stimulus programme at its August 4 policy meeting, Andy Haldane said that it would be better to take a "sledgehammer" to shore up confidence than "a miniature rock hammer".
His comments, in the updated text of a speech first given on June 30, mean that three of the Bank's nine rate-setters have publicly supported decisive central bank action in August.
Gertjan Vlieghe was the only member of the Bank's monetary policy committee to vote on Thursday for a cut in interest rates to 0.25 per cent and said that should be followed by further measures in three weeks' time. Mark Carney, the governor, has also backed stimulus "in the summer".
Mr Haldane's comments were welcomed by the markets, helping the FTSE 100 to edge up 14.77 points to 6,669.24. The pound fell 1.76 cents against the dollar to $1.3160.
"The idea that the monetary policy committee is preparing a major stimulus in August has been strengthened by a speech from Andy Haldane," Jonathan Loynes, chief European economist at Capital Economics, said.
Mr Haldane said a "material easing of monetary policy" was likely to be needed and hinted that the government may need to step in as well. The Bank's action would be "one part of a collective policy response aimed at helping to protect the economy and jobs from a downturn".
Philip Hammond, the chancellor, met Mr Carney on Thursday, raising the prospect of some form of co-ordinated action. Mr Hammond has ruled out an emergency budget, but Theresa May has scrapped George Osborne's plan to eliminate the deficit by 2020.
Mr Haldane expanded on the minutes to this month's MPC meeting, which were published on Thursday and noted that "most members" were planning to support some form of stimulus in August.
"Given the scale of insurance required, a package of mutually complementary monetary policy easing measures is likely to be necessary," he said. "This monetary response, if it is to buttress expectations and confidence, needs to be delivered promptly as well as muscularly. By promptly I mean next month, when the precise size and extent of the necessary stimulatory measures can be determined as part of the August Inflation Report round."
Several economists expect the Bank to cut rates, revisit quantitative easing and launch a new Funding for Lending scheme to push more credit into the real economy. A new scheme would need clearance from the Treasury.
Mr Haldane, who decided to wait for a complete stimulus package in August rather than cut this month, backed up his calls for strong action with a gloomy warning on growth. "Even though the economy is unlikely to crash, it is likely to slow, perhaps materially, in the quarters ahead," he said.
Uncertainty caused by the Brexit vote "is likely to weigh on domestic spending by both companies and households for the foreseeable future", he added. "While some of this uncertainty may dissipate, a good chunk is likely to linger throughout the Bank's two to three-year policy horizon."


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               520 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Bargains to be had amid the post-Brexit uncertainty; INVESTING

BYLINE: John Redwood

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 852 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The notional FT fund I run was deliberately positioned for a UK vote to leave the EU , as I always thought that was the likely outcome. I put my forecast on my website before the votes were counted. I realised that many in the City were in favour of Remain and would mark things down if there was a vote to leave.
As a result, the FT fund had very little left in UK shares. I had built up a bigger position in bonds which I thought would do well. I did not believe the forecasts that the UK cost of borrowing would go up in the short term after a Brexit vote. I maintained the shares' exposure to good overseas markets where any fall in sterling would help their value.
On the day after the vote, those who make markets in London did not disappoint. They marked shares down substantially, and pushed up UK bonds sharply. I decided to sell some bonds and buy UK shares on the back of what looked to me like foolish and petulant markdowns.
I planned to do it in two tranches, but the market soon rallied, so I only did half what I planned to do. I switched 5 per cent of the fund from bonds into the FTSE 100. As it turned out the bonds carried on rising in the following week, as did the shares, so the fund prospered. Following news of Brexit and the adjustments made by the markets over the past three weeks, the fund is usefully up, and is up 7 per cent on the year so far. The FTSE 100 duly put in a great one-week performance, rising by more than 7 per cent to July 2.
The strategy of holding overseas shares paid off, as sterling was the one thing markets did succeed in pushing down and keeping down. The pound has fallen by about 10 per cent in value against a trade weighted basket of major currencies the UK deals with. This of itself gives a strong stimulus to the UK economy.
It was interesting to see that many share markets in the euro area fared worst, as investors came to realise the loss of UK contributions to the EU and any possible damage to trade would have a worse effect on the rest of the EU than on the UK. European banks shares were also hard hit again, with more worries about the strength of some of them in a low interest rate environment.
Some still worry that UK trade could be damaged and confidence hit by the vote. In the short term, the UK will carry on trading under EU rules. Beyond that I would be surprised if the 27 remaining states of the EU did agree on imposing new tariffs and barriers on their trade with us, knowing we would retaliate if they did. Why would they want to hurt their substantial and profitable exports to us? They would also only be able to impose them to World Trade Organisation levels.
However, confidence needs watching. The monetary loosening so far announced can be augmented by UK government budgetary action, with the saved net contributions from the EU. The chancellor has said he wants to introduce more tax cuts for businesses. I would expect both the monetary and fiscal authorities to take helpful action if confidence does flag. There can be tax cuts, spending increases, more quantitative easing or just more cheap money for the banks as the Bank of England is currently offering.
Meanwhile the world background matters more to global investors. While Brexit is a big political story, it will have little impact on the world economy as a whole. The trend to lower interest rates in advanced countries has continued.
UK low interest government bonds are a haven of positive returns in an international environment of little yield from official paper. I have kept the FT fund fully invested, expecting gains in bonds and shares. With interest rates on the floor, there is no incentive to hold cash. The dash is on to find income or yield.
Sometimes when there is strong mood - as with the fear of Brexit - that may outrun the reality, there are opportunities to buy at good prices. The chance to buy the UK market as a whole did not last long. There are, however, pockets of depressed prices where there might be good longer term value as a result. I am looking again at UK property.
Some agents and valuers seem to want to talk the market down. Property shares are discounting falls in property values. It is true that the top end of the residential market has run into difficulties following higher rates of stamp duty and more challenging anti-money laundering procedures for foreign buyers. Top-end London property is vulnerable to the changes in government policy and to any change in sentiment. Brexit talk is also depressing some participants.
To foreign buyers, of course, the vote has made UK property 10 per cent cheaper. Tenant demand is still good and rents provide better income than government bonds or many shares. I am looking for bargains despite the new mood.
 John Redwood is chief global strategist for Charles Stanley. The FT Fund is a dummy portfolio intended to demonstrate how investors can use a wide range of ETFs to gain exposure to global stock markets while keeping down the costs of investing. The online version of this column contains full details of the FT Fund's current holdings, FT.com/johnredwood; john.redwood@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               521 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and the North ¦ [...]; Letters &Editorial Comment

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 80 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Brexit and the North ¦ When the Home Rule Bill was passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1914, the unionists of Ulster did not accept it, as a majority in Ulster did not want to leave the UK. A majority in the UK voted to leave the EU in the recent referendum but a majority in Northern Ireland voted to stay.
But now the unionists want the overall result of the referendum to be honoured. Are self-serving attitudes the root cause of so much trouble? Joseph Mackey Athlone


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               522 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and the power of wishful thinking; The Undercover Economist

BYLINE: Tim Harford

SECTION: FT MAGAZINE; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 903 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: So what happens now? As the aftershocks of the Brexit vote rumble on, people keep asking me to predict the future. I am not sure that is a useful exercise. But there's a lot to be learnt from examining the recent past. The unexpected result has important lessons for anyone who wishes to see what might be ahead.
The first is that wishful thinking is surprisingly powerful. A few years ago, the economist Guy Mayraz conducted a simple experiment at Oxford University's Centre for Experimental Social Science. Mayraz ran sessions in which the participants were shown 90 days of "wheat prices" (actually based on historical price data) and asked to predict the price of wheat on the 100th day. In addition to being paid for accurate forecasts, half the experimental subjects were told they were "bakers", who would profit if the price of wheat fell, and half were "farmers", who would make money if the price of wheat rose.
Logically, a farmer should make the same forecast as a baker, since the forecast does not change the outcome, and both of them are paid for accuracy. If people want to hedge even these small bets, farmers ought to forecast a lower price so that if the unwelcome outcome happens, at least they're rewarded for their forecasting.
But that's not what Mayraz found. Instead, nearly two-thirds of farmers predicted higher-than-average prices, and nearly two-thirds of bakers predicted lower-than-average prices. People tended to predict that their dreams would come true.
The same seems to have happened to Remain supporters - a group that included most of the British and international political and business establishment. Months before the vote, betting markets suggested that the chance of a Leave vote was about one-third. Given the likely consequences of such a vote - including the collapse of the pound, the resignation of the prime minister and a prolonged period of rudderless uncertainty - a one-third chance was worth taking seriously. Yet most of the elite seemed unwilling to countenance it. That is wishful thinking at its finest.
The betting markets, influenced as always by the weight of money, may have been displaying some wishful thinking of their own. Even during a mid-June run where nine out of 10 polls showed the Leave side ahead, the markets never gave Leave much more than a 40 per cent chance. With hindsight that seems odd.
The second lesson is that confirmation bias is everywhere: we are quite capable of clinging on to our beliefs by picking whatever facts support them. Remain voters now see the catastrophe they expected; Leave voters see a gratifying shake-up that will turn out fine in the end. Contrary evidence is easily dismissed. Eurosceptics claim that a drop in high-street footfall, a drying-up of job adverts and the emergency lockdown of property funds are not because real economic damage is in prospect, but because of gloomy Europhiles talking Britain down. The convenient thing about this argument is that it can never be falsified: recessions can always be blamed on the lack of faith of unbelievers.
I'm as guilty as anyone of confirmation bias. Like most economists, I expected that the consequences of a Leave vote would be ugly. The immediate collapse of the pound and the FTSE 100 made me feel Iwas right, although really they demonstrated nothing more than the fact that traders shared my view. Yet when the FTSE 100 recovered, that did not reassure me at all. I recalled that the index contains largely global companies and says little about the UK's economic prospects. Iaccepted bad news when it chimed with my beliefs, and dismissed good news when it did not.
Perhaps the most important lesson is that we spend too much energy trying to foretell the future, and too little trying to be resilient whatever happens. The referendum result was unpredictable but the likely short-term consequences of a Leave vote were perfectly clear. Former deputy prime minister Nick Clegg, aka "Mystic Clegg", outlined them in an article on the eve of the referendum that now seems clairvoyant. But most of what Clegg wrote could have been foretold by any well-informed observer who bothered to think through the consequences.
Perhaps Clegg learnt the trick of thinking things through from Vince Cable, his former colleague. Cable and I briefly worked together in the scenario planning department at Shell, a fascinating place to think about the future. Rather than making forecasts, good scenario planners sketch out different possibilities
and bring together people with different perspectives to work through the details. The end result will be several plausible, internally consistent and emotionally compelling stories about the future. The scenarios will highlight hidden connections and make distant consequences seem real. But, importantly, the scenarios will also contradict each other.
It's time for more serious scenario thinking about the UK's future in Europe. Because scenarios are persuasive stories, they can help us face up to uncomfortable prospects and think clearly about possibilities we would rather ignore. And because scenarios contradict each other, they force us to acknowledge that, in the end, we cannot actually see into the future. As a result, we move from a sterile question to a fertile one - from "What will happen?" to "What will we do if it does?"
Tim Harford is the author of "TheUndercover Economist Strikes Back". Twitter @TimHarford


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               523 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Europe Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit and the power of wishful thinking; Undercover economist

BYLINE: Tim Harford

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 901 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: So what happens now? As the aftershocks of the Brexit vote rumble on, people keep asking me to predict the future. I am not sure that is a useful exercise. But there's a lot to be learnt from examining the recent past. The unexpected result has important lessons for anyone who wishes to see what might be ahead.
The first is that wishful thinking is surprisingly powerful. A few years ago, economist Guy Mayraz conducted a simple experiment at the University of Oxford's Centre for Experimental Social Science. Mayraz ran sessions in which the participants were shown 90 days of "wheat prices" (actually based on historical price data) and asked to predict the price of wheat on the 100th day. In addition to being paid for accurate forecasts, half the participants were told they were "bakers" who would profit if the price of wheat fell, and half were "farmers" who would make money if the price of wheat rose.
Logically, a farmer should make the same forecast as a baker, since the forecast does not change the outcome, and both of them are paid for accuracy. If people want to hedge even these small bets, farmers ought to forecast a lower price so that if the unwelcome outcome happens, at least they're rewarded for their forecasting.
But that's not what Mayraz found. Instead, nearly two-thirds of farmers predicted higher-than-average prices, and nearly two-thirds of bakers predicted lower-than-average prices. People tended to predict that their dreams would come true.
The same seems to have happened to Remain supporters - a group that included most of the British and international political and business establishment. Months before the vote, betting markets suggested that the chance of a Leave vote was about one-third. Given the likely consequences of such a vote - including the collapse of the pound , the resignation of the prime minister and a prolonged period of rudderless uncertainty - a one-third chance was worth taking seriously. Yet most of the elite seemed unwilling to countenance it. That is wishful thinking at its finest.
The betting markets, influenced as always by the weight of money, may have been displaying some wishful thinking of their own. Even during a mid-June run where nine out of 10 polls showed the Leave side ahead, the markets never gave Leave much more than a 40 per cent chance. With hindsight that seems odd.
The second lesson is that confirmation bias is everywhere: we are quite capable of clinging on to our beliefs by picking whatever facts support them. Remain voters now see the catastrophe they expected; Leave voters see a gratifying shake-up that will turn out fine in the end. Contrary evidence is easily dismissed. Eurosceptics claim that a drop in high street footfall, a drying-up of job adverts and the emergency lockdown of property funds are not because real economic damage is in prospect, but because of gloomy Europhiles talking Britain down. The convenient thing about this argument is that it can never be falsified: recessions can always be blamed on the lack of faith of unbelievers.
I'm as guilty as anyone of confirmation bias. Like most economists, I expected that the consequences of a Leave vote would be ugly. The collapse of the pound and the FTSE 100 made me feel I was right, although really they demonstrated nothing more than the fact that traders shared my view. Yet when the FTSE 100 recovered, that did not reassure me. The index contains largely global companies and says little about the UK's economic prospects. I accepted bad news when it chimed with my beliefs, and dismissed good news when it did not.
Perhaps the most important lesson is that we spend too much energy trying to foretell the future, and too little trying to be resilient whatever happens. The referendum result was unpredictable but the likely short-term consequences of a Leave vote were clear. Former deputy prime minister Nick Clegg , aka "Mystic Clegg", outlined them in an article on the eve of the referendum that now seems clairvoyant. But most of what Clegg wrote could have been foretold by any well-informed observer who bothered to think through the consequences.
Perhaps Clegg learnt the trick of thinking things through from Vince Cable, his former colleague. Cable and I briefly worked together in the scenario planning department at Shell, a fascinating place to think about the future. Rather than making forecasts, good scenario planners sketch out possibilities and bring together people with different perspectives to work through the details. The end result will be several plausible, internally consistent and emotionally compelling stories about the future. The scenarios will highlight hidden connections and make distant consequences seem real. But, importantly, the scenarios will also contradict each other.
It's time for more serious scenario thinking about the UK's future in Europe. Because scenarios are persuasive stories, they can help us face up to uncomfortable prospects and think clearly about possibilities we would rather ignore. And because scenarios contradict each other, they force us to acknowledge that, in the end, we cannot actually see into the future. As a result, we move from a sterile question to a fertile one - from "What will happen?" to "What will we do if it does?"
 Tim Harford is the author of 'The Undercover Economist Strikes Back'. tim.harford@ft.com; @TimHarford 
More columns at ft.com/harford


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               524 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit bargains

BYLINE: Hugo Cox

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - HOUSE & HOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2322 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The wailing and the weeping is impressive for such a sanguine nation but, before the UK howls itself into a Brexit-based residential property catastrophe, we have polished the collective crystal ball to look at a few themes in this sea of uncertainty around the high-end market in London and south-east England.
Right now is a great time to buy for many international buyers. The fall in sterling means that dollar buyers earlier this week effectively enjoyed an 11 per cent discount compared with the day of the referendum vote. It is also a great time for some domestic buyers thanks to almost non-existent interest rates.
That said, both Savills and Knight Frank have been warning for several months that London's prime market, historically more volatile than the rest of the country, would bear the brunt of the early Brexit fallout. This is the sector with the highest concentration of non-UK owners. In April the rating agency Moody's estimated that foreign nationals accounted for 49 per cent of sales of homes worth £1m and above. With Britain experiencing its biggest political experiment in a generation, it is likely that, villains or saviours, this group will play a pivotal role.
Are they likely to exit because of Brexit? Few of London's super-rich consider the UK's membership of Europe's single market as a factor in choosing a London home, according to Trevor Abrahmsohn, of Glentree Estates, who estimates that non-EU international buyers make up 70 to 80 per cent of this market. "These buyers do not care where Europe is at and they don't believe for a second that Brexit means that London's status as a property safe haven is at risk."
Indeed, following the financial crisis when the UK and Europe were wobbling, these buyers didn't seem to care. Super-prime Mayfair is a favourite destination for many of them - at £2,300 per sq ft, according to Savills, average prices here are 18 per cent above the average in the rest of prime central London. From Mayfair's pricing low point in March 2009 to the end of 2012, a period spanning the end of the UK recession and the darkest days of the eurozone crisis, foreign buyers' appetite helped Mayfair prices gain 61 per cent, far outstripping the 28 per cent prime central London average, according to Savills.
The priorities for this group of buyers were - and remain - personal safety, the rule of law, a favourable tax regime, good private schools and the great British tradition of political and economic stability, says Mark Parkinson of buying agent Middleton Advisors. While the Brexit turmoil appears, by British standards, to jeopardise the last of these factors, it is worth considering what these buyers are often used to elsewhere: capital controls in China and, increasingly, Russia; the president's impeachment and the worst recession for decades in Brazil; a sinking oil price driving the first ever government bond issue in Saudi Arabia.
Besides, for this group the fall in sterling goes much of the way towards offsetting the stamp duty rise introduced in December 2014 (now at 15 per cent on any amount above the first £1.5m for a second home), says Naomi Heaton, chief executive of London Central Portfolio Limited, which manages close to £1bn in prime London property.
Brexit could, however, spell trouble for European bankers who have made their home in London. If the UK does leave the single market, many may find themselves posted abroad. Jefferies, the US investment bank, estimated before the referendum that an exit could see 100,000 banking jobs relocated to Europe. All but 500 of Goldman Sachs' 6,500-strong European workforce are based in London.
They may not be in a rush to sell their homes if they can avoid it. This is hardly a time for dollar or euro investors to realise gains on London property. Earlier this week, a weaker pound meant that the average Kensington & Chelsea home (valued at £1.315m) was worth roughly £110,000 less than on the day of the referendum vote for those banking in euros. Dollar owners, meanwhile, were £144,000 poorer.
Even if continental Europeans start deserting the capital, the impact could be muted: only a third of prime London buyers from abroad are from the EU, says Savills. Collectively, non-European international buyers are responsible for a fifth of all second-hand prime sales.
For international buyers with the stomach for the volatility that may be in store, buying, rather than selling, looks appealing. The downward lurch in sterling in the wake of the Brexit vote was the steep dismount at the end of a steady slide. Over the past six months, the combined effect of changes in average property values and shifts in exchange rates, has seen London's 5 per cent most expensive properties get 13 per cent cheaper for euro buyers, and 10 per cent cheaper for those with dollars, according to Hometrack. Over the same period sterling owners in this property elite have seen gains of 1 per cent.
The impact on London's high-end, new-build market is hard to call but the supply-and-demand equation looks obvious: large numbers of units are coming on stream at the same time as prime central London prices are falling.
About 19,000 new homes were under construction in inner London in May - 43 per cent more than 18 months earlier, according to research for the FT by Property Vision, a buying agency, and Dataloft, a research company. A total of 6,249 of them were located in SW8, says Anthony Codling of Jefferies, which includes the prime developments peppering Nine Elms Lane and Battersea Power Station. Codling adds that two-thirds of homes on sale in SW8 today are new - the second highest rate of any London postcode.
Flighty buyers from abroad could threaten prices. Local agents say the new developments - where buyers typically put down between 10 per cent and 20 per cent at exchange and the rest when the homes are completed - have proved very popular with individual investors from Malaysia and China.
With London's prime market cooling - average prices in prime central London have dropped 8 per cent since their peak in October 2014, according to Savills - many are now selling on the secondary market in order to avoid losses, says Johnny Male, of local agent Daniel Cobb.
Developers dismiss the claims. The average gain for resales in the development of Battersea Power Station - where 1,500 flats have been sold since January 2013 - is 30 per cent, according to the developer, Battersea Power Station Development Company. But it would not reveal resale price changes since October 2014 when London's prime market started falling.
Heaton believes that average prices across the area's prime new-builds will fall 20 per over the next two to three years.
Either way, deals are being struck according to some agents. "[Since the referendum] overseas investors have been coming forward with discounts on their offers," says Nanette Hung of CBRE, the agent selling One Nine Elms, which will include London's tallest residential building, and Nine Elms Point. "We have been doing a lot of haggling."
If haggling is not your thing then the sub-£1m market in central London is worth examining. This represents half the housing stock, so there is plenty to choose from, particularly in Bayswater, Pimlico, Paddington and Victoria.
In the immediate future, the big question is, as Judith Evans - the FT's property correspondent - puts it, "whether the new speculative investors will outweigh the people exiting, or those put off relocating to London, because of Brexit".
Longer term, a positive outlook seems likely because London will probably hang on to its "world city" status. High employment levels may take a drubbing but some of its other world city qualities look like they will remain intact: a forgiving political and physical climate, English as the main language, good IT sector, handy timezone, flourishing arts, lush parkland and excellent global connections.
One final thought. If prices in London and the south-east do fall more into line with properties in the rest of the country, even if only slightly, there is some cause for celebration. In some areas of the UK prices have never recovered to their pre-financial crisis levels. And while prices in the Midlands and the north have sunk 12.5 per cent since their 2007 peak, prime London has soared 35.2 per cent over the same period, according to Savills.
As the referendum has vividly demonstrated, extreme inequality fractures society which is no good for anyone or anything, let alone the economy.
Turner's Reach House, Chelsea, London
What A three-bedroom, 4,000 sq ft apartment in a building dating from 1879.
Was £9.25m
Now £8.5m
Who Hamptons International, hamptons.co.uk, tel: +44 20 33694391
Lexham Gardens, Kensington, London
What A five-bedroom family home with a mosaic-floored foyer, high ceilings and a terrace overlooking communal gardens.
Was £6.95m
Now £6.75m
Who John D Wood & Co, johndwood.co.uk, tel: +44 20 3151 6120
Celbridge Mews, Bayswater, London
What A two-bedroom, refurbished house in a cobbled mews, a short walk from Hyde Park.
Was £970,000
Now £950,000
Who Kinleigh Folkland & Hayward, kfh.co.uk, tel: +44 20 3792 5571
Ambassador Building, Embassy Gardens, Nine Elms, London
What A three-bedroom penthouse with a private roof terrace and views of the Thames.
Was £4.5m
Now Owner may consider offers 10 per cent below the asking price, according to the agent
Who Johns & Co, johnsand.co, tel: +44 20 7481 0600
Ambassador Building, Embassy Gardens, Nine Elms, London
What A three-bedroom penthouse with a private roof terrace and views of the Thames.
Was £4.5m
Now Owner may consider offers 10 per cent below the asking price, according to the agent
Who Johns & Co, johnsand.co, tel: +44 20 7481 0600
Honeycomb Cottage, Wheelbarrow Town, Kent
What A three-bedroom cottage with 1.6 acres of grounds, including a hay barn and paddock.
Was £750,000
Now £700,000
Who Strutt & Parker, struttandparker.com, tel: +44 1227 473742
Bramshott Manor, Church Lane, Liphook, Hampshire
What A five-bedroom manor house, parts of which date back to the 13th century, with inglenook fireplaces, a Juliet balcony and a wisteria-clad pergola. The property comes with five acres.
Was £2m
Now £1.85m
Who Strutt & Parker, struttandparker.com, tel: +44 20 7629 7282
One The Elephant, Elephant and Castle, London
What A three-bedroom apartment with two balconies in a new tower with 24-hour concierge.
Was £1.4m
Now £1.2m
Who Garton Jones, gartonjones.co.uk, tel: +44 20 7735 1888
Onslow Gardens, South Kensington, London
What A two-bedroom maisonette in a grade II-listed, Victorian building with access to communal gardens.
Was £1.89m
Now £1.79m
Who Savills, savills.com, tel: +44 20 7578 9000
Freshfield Manor, Ketches Lane, near Danehill, West Sussex
What A six-bedroom house with flagstone floors within a 47-acre estate which includes a pool, tennis court and two cottages, each with two bedrooms.
Was £2.95m
Now £2.6m
Who Strutt & Parker, struttandparker.com, tel: +44 1273 475411
FT writers on what could happen next
Judith Evans
Property correspondent
From a state of near-overheating, Brexit has cast a sudden chill over the property market in London and the south-east. Early indications are that people are thinking more carefully before committing to large mortgages or moving to bigger homes. Some analysts predict prices will fall, others that they will flatten, but it seems clear the days of double-digit annual price rises have come to an end.
Izabella Kaminska
FT Alphaville reporter
On one hand, London property just got a lot cheaper for foreign buyers at the same time that the capital's offshore financial centre status vis-à-vis the rest of the world may have got a boost. On the other hand, it may see demand cut in half as workers flock back to the continent. While news from estate agents is mixed, concerns are growing for the buy-to-let and rental market. The view here is that an independent UK is unlikely to turn away high-skilled workers or the rich. More realistically the low-skilled sector will be affected, most of whom rent rather than buy.
Jonathan Guthrie
City editor
There should be a tumbleweed or two bowling around Canary Wharf, as investment banks relocate staff to the continent. High-end property in the Docklands, or with good transport links to it, should get a lot cheaper. Upmarket apartments across London should become more affordable. Whether they are decent investments depends on whether you believe the capital will continue to thrive if and when the UK quits the EU.
Jamil Anderlini
Asia editor
In recent years, mainland Chinese citizens have overtaken Russian citizens as the single biggest group of foreign buyers of London real estate. With the pound hitting historic lows, the rush by Chinese and other Asian investors is likely to accelerate.
Merryn Somerset Webb
Editor-in-chief of MoneyWeek
Property in central London was overvalued before the referendum vote. And it is still overvalued now. The good news? It is getting less overvalued.
Adam Thomson
Paris correspondent
Central London property prices have long been out of reach for ordinary mortals and Brexit won't change that. Paris may be pricey but London is ludicrous. Brexit is a potentially huge opportunity for the French capital to attract international banks and other financial institutions but there is a dearth of high-quality, centrally located office space. If the big banks do decide to move to Paris, they may have to get used to the idea of being in La Défense or other areas outside the capital's city limits.
Sebastian Payne
Digital comment editor
We will only find out the full economic impact of Brexit in a few months' time, but construction is already slowing and the housing market looks unstable. Although a fall in house prices would help those in my generation who have struggled to get on the ladder, the particular issue in London - high demand, low supply - remains unresolved. It is up to Sadiq Khan, the new London mayor, and the government to get building.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ENGLAND (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               525 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit fallout and GDP figures . . .

BYLINE: Colin Gleeson

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1251 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: nThe Central Statistics
(CSO) found a big pot of gold lying around this week, when it revised the Republic's GDP growth rate last year up to 26.3 per cent. That's four times the rate of China.
 "Leprechaun economics," was what Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman said, while the Financial Times sarcastically lauded the Republic for producing yet another "notable work of fiction" to go with the works of James Joyce and Flann O'Brien.
 The truth is the figure was hugely affected by one-off factors, including activity in the aircraft-leasing sector and restructuring by multinational companies involving the movement of patents and tax-driven mergers.
 The bad news for the Government is that, in effect, with Michael Noonan creeping through the long grass in the hope nobody will pay too much attention to the State's corporate tax practices, the CSO has come up behind him, blasted a foghorn and drawn all eyes back to Ireland.
 There is now likely to be increased scrutiny of how the Republic does its business with multinationals, and while Noonan initially seemed to brush it off as a sign the economy was "continuing to grow", he later smiled sheepishly at reporters and said the figure would not affect budget calculations.
 Taoiseach Enda Kenny further clarified in the Dáil that the Government realises the figure is not representative of the real economy. The Department of Finance's figure for economic growth last year was in the region of 3.5 per cent to 4 per cent, he said.
 This "more normal growth rate'' was the basis for a budget kitty of about EUR 600 million for new spending, EUR 250 million for capital spending and less than EUR 350 million for tax cuts.
 Central Bank governor Philip Lane was unimpressed with the episode and met the CSO to voice his concerns. The statisticians later said they would convene a meeting of high-level officials to examine how they might provide more accurate measures of economic performance in future.
 A former Central Bank deputy was equally unimpressed. Stefan Gerlach, hired to help stabilise the financial system during the crisis, expressed fears the figure might be taken seriously.
 "Economic growth is not like a soccer game - a higher score isn't necessarily better," he said. "While there are a lot of very serious politicians in Ireland, I am worried that people will look at the figures and ask why there is a need for any austerity."
 Fears about the reputational damage to the State were underlined when Moody's, one of the world's three main credit ratings agencies, said the highly volatile economic performance was one of its main concerns about the Republic's creditworthiness.
 "We caution that the revision . . . was heavily distorted by the transactions of a number of multinational entities, which have a limited impact on the domestic economy and the Government's repayment capacity," said its lead analyst on the Republic.
n"I was the future once," declared a wistful David Cameron to the House of Commons in his final speech as prime minister on Wednesday, but 
Britain now faces a very different vista. With new prime minister Theresa May firmly ensconced in Number 10, it's full speed ahead for Brexit.
 The speedy nature of the Conservatives' leadership election helped to calm some of the nerves in financial markets - at least for the moment. And sterling leapt after the Bank of England left interest rates unchanged at 0.5 per cent.
 This was despite widespread expectations of a rate cut to soften the economic impact of the vote. The British currency later eased back from its two-week high on the belief that a cut would happen soon. It had soared as high as $1.3480 after the rate announcement, up more than 2 per cent on the day and its strongest since June 30th.
 British consumer confidence fell sharply, however, following the vote to leave. The Thomson Reuters/Ipsos Primary Consumer Sentiment Index fell to 49.4 from 51.2.
 Ulster Bank chief economist Richard Ramsey said economists had slashed growth forecasts for the UK economy, and warned that the UK and Northern Ireland could be headed into recession.
 "The consensus opinion is for marginal rates of growth next year, with an increasing number of economists expecting the UK economy to enter recession," he said. 
 "Given its reliance on Great Britain, Northern Ireland would be very likely to follow suit."
 House prices in the North last month were hit by the uncertainty as buyers and sellers got cold feet. The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and Ulster Bank residential market survey showed a "downshift in sentiment" in June as a result of both the EU referendum vote and the impact of a higher stamp duty in place on investment property sales.
 In Dublin, the National Treasury Management Agency said it would take its time in assessing the long-term impact of Brexit on Ireland's bonds, as the ECB continues to provide massive support for euro zone government debt.
 The implications of the vote are starting to be felt here, with Bank of Ireland saying the referendum had led it to increase its pension deficit. The bank said the impact on foreign exchange rates and interest rates had pushed the deficit for its defined-benefit pension scheme from EUR 740 million in December 2015 to EUR 1.2 billion at the end of June.
 AIB warned the UK's vote could have "a material impact" on its business. "The nature, timing and impact of a UK exit from the EU on the UK economy and trade is not fully known but may have negative consequences for the group," it said.
 Separately, a study of about 1,000 Irish small and medium enterprises found 60 per cent expected a negative reaction from Brexit.
 There were decreases in 10 out of the 12 economic indicators tracked for lobby group Isme's quarterly business trends survey. The study was conducted by Isme in the first week after the Brexit vote, while businesses were still processing the shock.
nIn company news, UK property group Hammerson became one of the biggest players in the Irish retail sector after securing ownership of Dundrum Town Centre, as well as laying plans to take ownership of 50 per cent stakes in both the Ilac and Pavilions shopping centres in Dublin.
 Brown Thomas then moved quickly to begin talks with Hammerson on increasing the size of its BT2 store at Dundrum Town shopping centre. Managing director Stephen Sealey said the store had been "doing very, very well". 
 Founder and chairman of JD Wetherspoon's, Tim Martin, said the "dream is over" in terms of having a dozen freehold pubs in central Dublin at a knockdown price.
 His five Irish bars continue to perform well, but rising property prices and planning permission delays means expansion plans are effectively on hold at present. He was talking after the group announced a 5.5 per cent rise in total sales for the 50 weeks to July 10th, with like-for-like sales increasing by 3.4 per cent.
nIn media, Virgin Media bought UTV Ireland from ITV for EUR 10 million in a deal that unites UTV Ireland with TV3 under the same ownership.
Virgin Media said the agreement with ITV would also see it take over a 10-year supply deal for ITV-produced programmes including soap operas Coronation Street and Emmerdale.
 In the newspaper sector, Paul Cooke resigned as managing director of the Sunday Business Post and sold his shareholding to its other shareholders, Key Capital.
 The newspaper also announced it is to merge with the Cork-based printer Webprint, which Key Capital took control of last October. 
Business Week Colin Gleeson 


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (92%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               526 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit puts brakes on house buys; PROPERTY

BYLINE: Chris Giles

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Britain's housing market has taken a post-referendum nosedive with a sharp drop in purchase enquiries at estate agents, a reduction in sales agreed and expectations of falling prices.
In its latest survey of estate agents and surveyors, conducted after the June 23 vote to leave the EU, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found a "marked drop in activity in the housing market". The monthly survey is a leading and closely watched indicator of house prices and economic activity related to moving home. Chris Giles


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               527 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain's new prime minister ready to stand between market and workers; May has cannilyoutsourced the early stages of Brexit talks to the Brexiteers

BYLINE: Denis Staunton

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 794 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: In her calls with other European leaders recently, Britain's prime minister Theresa May made one thing clear: leaving the EU means just that. There will be no retreat from the referendum decision, no attempt to water it down or to return to the EU by the back door.
Beyond that very little is certain. May has made veteran Eurosceptic David Davis secretary of state for exiting the European Union. But much of his role is a mystery, including who in Brussels he sees as his interlocutors and which council formations, if any, he will attend.
A Europe minister under John Major, Davis once knew his way around the European institutions, but he may need a quick refresher course. Only a few weeks ago he was talking about striking individual trade deals with France and Germany, apparently unaware that those countries cannot strike bilateral deals because the EU negotiates on trade for the union as a whole.
Liam Fox, another old Eurosceptic warhorse, is secretary for international trade, with a brief to scope out trade deals for Britain after Brexit. But here too there are unanswered questions, including whether he will participate in the formulation of EU trade policy in the meantime.
May has outsourced the early stages of the Brexit negotiations to the Brexiteers - "if you Brexit, you fix it", was the phrase around Westminster this week. But she will take personal charge of driving her radical domestic agenda.
May's remarks as she entered 10 Downing Street on Wednesday, and her speech in Birmingham on Monday, signal a new direction from the free market liberalism which has been the Conservative orthodoxy for decades. 
Principles 
"This is a different kind of Conservatism, I know. It marks a break with the past. But it is in fact completely consistent with Conservative principles. Because we don't just believe in markets, but in communities. We don't just believe in individualism, but in society. We don't hate the state, we value the role that only the state can play," she said in Birmingham.  
This embrace of the activist state is reflected in the fact that May's business secretary Greg Clark is styled secretary of state for business, energy and industrial strategy. 
Downing Street said this week that industrial strategy will focus on improving productivity but in Birmingham May outlined a more ambitious agenda. 
She promised to intervene to protect important industrial sectors if companies are threatened with hostile takeovers and to change boardroom rules to introduce workers' representation on company boards.
Many at Westminster saw in May's speech the hand of her close adviser Nick Timothy, who she has appointed her joint chief-of-staff. Last March Timothy wrote in conservativehome.com about the tension within the Conservative Party between the ideologies represented by former leader Iain Duncan Smith and former chancellor George Osborne.
Duncan Smith's approach has been called Easterhouse modernisation, which focuses on fighting the kind of poverty found on the eponymous Glasgow estate, and Osborne's has been dubbed Soho modernisation, which is all about social liberalism.
"Easterhouse requires a focus on fighting extreme poverty rather than helping people who might be just a little better off, but for whom life is still a struggle. Soho often focuses on causes, like the pursuit of 'general wellbeing' and support for 'green taxes' that are far removed from - and sometimes run directly against - the interests of ordinary families," Timothy wrote. 
Timothy favours a third approach under which the government would continue to help the very poor and would fight injustices based on gender, race and sexuality but would focus relentlessly on what he calls "ordinary working people". 
Stagnant wages 
Many such people backed Brexit, less because they care about the EU or even about immigration but because they have seen their wages stagnate, prices rise and their towns die at the hands of market forces.  
For such people Westminster and Brussels are equally remote and indifferent, and May has made it her purpose to address their concerns.
"When you add all of these things up, the only surprise is that there is so much surprise in Westminster about the public's appetite for change," she said in Birmingham.
The make-up of her cabinet reflects the class dimension to the change in direction, with fewer privately-educated ministers than any since Clement Atlee's in 1945. 
Atlee's government marked the last great change in Britain's political direction until Thatcher's election in 1979. If May follows through on her reorientation of the government's role in the economy towards a more interventionist Rhineland model of capitalism, Britain as it leaves the EU could be on the verge of another. Denis Staunton is London editor


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               528 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Builders apply brakes amid fears of fallout from Brexit

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 232 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The building industry contracted sharply in May, fuelling fears that the economy is heading for a slowdown.
Construction output shrank by 2.1 per cent compared with the previous month and by 1.9 per cent year-on-year, according to data published yesterday by the Office for National Statistics.
The figures, based on a regular survey of 8,000 British businesses, were worse than had been expected by most economists. Chris Williamson, at Markit, said that they "add to what's looking like an ugly run of data for the sector. It looks like there's worse to come."
The drop in activity was fed by uncertainty about the mere possibility of Brexit, he said. "The reality of the UK leaving the EU and the associated heightened uncertainty, especially in relation to commercial property and housing investment, is therefore likely to cause further stress in coming months."
Housebuilding was the worst-performing category, as total new housing fell by 3.2 per cent compared with April, when there was a 0.1 per cent fall. Year-on-year there was no growth in total housing compared with May 2015.
Barratt Homes, Britain's biggest housebuilder, warned on Wednesday that it could reduce the rate at which it builds new homes as the company braces itself for powerful headwinds after Brexit. David Thomas, Barratt's chief executive, said: "We are mindful of the greater uncertainty now facing the UK economy."


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               529 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: CAITLIN MORAN Columnist of the year; 'After Brexit, the 2012 Olympics look like the moment we decided, "I think we're done"'

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 812 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: It's been couple of weeks now, and we all have our own theories as to why Britain voted to leave the EU. I'm pretty sure I've heard most of them: electorate given deliberate misinformation, a public vote against The Elite, anti-immigrant xenophobia stoked by pressure on underfunded infrastructure, a desire to "shake things up".
The deeper meaning of the vote is still so mysterious to those whose livelihoods depend on understanding it - pollsters, politicians, economists, sociologists, the media - that I've seen an "amusing" astrological explanation of how five key planets are now in retrograde being given a run for its money on Facebook. As many will know from bitter experience, when Uranus is playing up, all kinds of things can happen. And there is massive pain in Uranus right now. Uranus is in the wrong place, and causing problems for everyone.
The most loudly touted idea - that it was about taking back "control" - seems to have illogic at its centre. The idea that the latterly fifth, and now sixth, biggest economy in the world decided it needed more control, would seem baffling to anyone in, say, the world's thirtieth largest economy. How much more does Britain need to "win" that causing gigantic upheaval and uncertainty to every aspect of how we function as a country - staffing our public services, attracting foreign investment, conducting trade deals, imperilling the Union, changing our frigging passports - seems worth it? People who are really interested in control do not vote for chaos, which is most certainly what we have now. Control freaks like a calm, solid plan.
And this was not a calm vote, as we know. It was a campaign fought with dark passions. To vote Leave was an angry, discontented vote, people wanting "their" country "back". But underneath all this the anger was an odd … nilhilism. A "f*** it". A "Who cares what happens next? I want out."
So I wonder if what was secretly, subconsciously wanted by all those Leave voters was not control, but for Britain to become … smaller. Less powerful. Less culpable. Less turned-to in times of need. I think Leave was a vote to retire.
I think England - beautiful old England - is done with being a world leader. We've played every card, and now we're packing up, and pulling up the drawbridge. Our sense of purpose as a world force is spent. Our centuries of mad mojo have finally deserted POLITIS SPIROS us. Until recently, we had the innate sense of leadership of a first-born child. We got stuff done. We never questioned our rightness.
But then we got involved in wars where we tried to sort out other countries' problems - Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan - and failed.
Our role in the First World Police Squad, a European/American gang called upon to act whenever there was a genocide, dictatorship or humanitarian crisis, started to feel like a convoluted, thankless task, likely to end up in dead servicemen and women, bad press, inquiries, prosecutions and self-doubt.
It's exhausting, and complex, being one of the world's leading countries. You get blamed for things. You get asked for things. You have to reinvent yourself, tirelessly, every generation, or else watch yourselves fall, humiliatingly, behind. For centuries, Britain has thrown itself at all those tasks with gusto.
But from the vantage point of post-Brexit 2016, that climactic opening ceremony at the 2012 Olympics looks like the moment where our lives as a country - the Industrial Revolution, the NHS, the Beatles, equal marriage, acid house - flashed before our eyes, and when the question was asked, "So, what do we do next?", the unexpected reply was, "I kind of think we're done. We've rolled the Best Bits Montage. We've done everything. What are the chances we'll top that? Now, we stop."
Our shrugging reaction to Syria shows we just don't want to make big decisions any more. We don't want to be called on in times of trouble. We're done with getting involved, sorting things out and taking responsibility for others. Like a babysitting grandparent who, when the children start fighting, drifts away to the front door saying, "I've done my years of parenting. My knees hurt, and I just want to concentrate on my bowls club now." The demographic breakdown of the Leave vote shows it was the older voters who wanted out - 75 per cent of the under-25s were Remain; 68 per cent of the over-fifties, Leave.
These were the Britons who saw what a struggle it is to remain a superpower - all the negotiations and compromises, the raw energy needed to harness an immigrant workforce and adapt to a new Britain - and said, "We want to Leave. Ostensibly, we are Leaving Europe, but what we're really Leaving is the High Table. We've made all our history. We've done all our innovating. We want to be smaller. Let someone else do the heavy lifting." But the thing about grandparents is … they die. ? n caitlin.moran@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: URANUS (88%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ENGLAND (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               530 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday 7:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: European holiday hotspots cheaper now compared with two years ago; Despite Brexit fears, Post Office survey finds visitors to Bulgaria, Portugal and Spain will spend less on meals and drinks than they would have in 2014

BYLINE: Miles Brignall and Rianna Walcott

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 497 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: If you'd given up on the prospect of a cheap European holiday following the Brexit vote, you can think again. A survey of European holiday costs has found that several popular destinations are actually cheaper to visit now than they have been in the past few years.
The collapse in the pound to (EURO)1.19 following the June referendum was thought to have killed off last-minute holiday bookings to Europe. But price falls at many popular tourist destinations mean holidaymakers won't feel as much currency pain as they may have feared. 
Post Office Travel Money compared 14 European resorts and found that prices of meals and other holiday expenses are lower now than in 2014 in many, and significantly down on the prices paid in 2011.
Visitors to Sunny Beach in Bulgaria, the Costa Blanca in Spain, the Portuguese Algarve and Crete will enjoy cheaper meals, drinks and snacks than they would have two years ago, with some prices lower than last year, when the pound was riding high at (EURO)1.40. The loss of domestic tourists and continued economic problems in the eurozone have pushed prices ever lower in a number of popular destinations. 
Earlier this week it emerged that some airport bureaux de change were offering just (EURO)1 to the pound, following the Brexit vote. But canny consumers can still find bargains, the survey found. 
The Algarve and Bulgaria offer the best value for those eating out, according to the figures. A basket of goods, including a family meal, will set visitors back just £34 in Bulgaria and £41 in Portugal. But those heading to Majorca this summer, where prices have risen by 50% since last year, will pay £75. On the party island of Ibiza the bill will be almost £120.
Andrew Brown of Post Office Travel Money said: "It's all about putting today's exchange rates into context. Sterling may have fallen recently but when you compare its value with every other year since 2011 except 2015, holidaymakers can be reassured that the cash in their pockets will cover their costs - particularly as bars and restaurants in several of the resorts we surveyed have cut their prices to attract tourists." 
He said the Costa del Sol in Spain remains - at £46 for a basket of goods - a good-value destination to eat out, despite a 19% increase in prices over the past 12 months. Pathos in Greece was named as the cheapest place to shop for towels, sun cream and buckets and spades. The Post Office found its basket of selected items would cost a family around £56 in the resort. The same items would cost double (£112) if bought in Nice, France, or £92 in Sorrento, Italy.
Meanwhile, back at home, Blackpool has been named the UK's cheapest destination, easily beating Skegness and Scarborough on price. For just £474, two adults and two children can spend a week by the Blackpool seaside - staying at a hotel for seven nights and taking a ride on the town's popular historic tram. A similar week in Skegness would cost £726, according to PromotionalCodes.org.uk. 


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (92%); SPAIN (91%); PORTUGAL (90%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BULGARIA (68%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               531 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Every terrifying step of these refugees' journeys to Europe; A humane film blows away all the Brexit xenophobia with an up close and personal look at refugees in crisis

BYLINE: Bernice Harrison

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1124 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Outside the foreign pages of newspapers the horrors of the refugee crisis have quietly slipped off the prime-time end of the news cycle. The global outcry to do something, which reached a crescendo last September, when the body of the Syrian toddler Alan Kurdi was washed up on a Turkish beach, was replaced by the hum of migrantphobia during the Brexit debates, when the Leave campaign pitched the refugee crisis in terms of quotas and barriers. 
The brilliant Exodus: Our Journey to Europe (BBC Two, Monday-Wednesday) humanises the story, putting faces on the vast crowds we have seen crossing Europe's borders and fields. The three-part documentary, filmed over a year, and mixing professional footage with that from migrants' camera phones, follows the desperate journey of several people, mostly Syrians, as they attempt to reach Europe. 
There is a life-and-death immediacy as the film goes along with the migrants in dangerously overcrowded dinghies and in cross-Channel lorries, or as they walk for miles, carrying babies, helping old people and pushing wheelchairs, and all with their entire belongings on their backs. 
It is clear from the interviews that these are people who could never have imagined themselves leaving their homes and families to huddle under tents in refugee camps or sleep in Greek parks. 
Every story features unseen human traffickers, showing how a profitable industry has grown up from the human desperation in the greatest movement of people in Europe since the second World War. 
Hassan, a softly spoken 27-year-old English teacher from Syria, pays EUR 2,000 for a dinghy crossing from Turkey to Greece; a tourist would pay EUR 22 on the ferry. "People seem amazed that refugees have money, but we sold everything to make this journey - houses, cars, everything," Hassan says. 
But the dinghy is overloaded. Instead of the promised 30 people the traffickers have allowed on 65. It soon starts to sink, and Hassan's camera phone - the migrants all rely heavily on mobile phones - records the quiet panic as they attempt to bail out the boat with water bottles. But it sinks anyway in Turkish waters, and they are brought back to Izmir. Hassan is alive, but his bag is gone. All he has left are the clothes he is wearing. 
Plucky 
In Izmir Isra'a, a plucky, optimistic 11-year-old who is selling contraband cigarettes from a stall with her father, to get money for the crossing. Isra'a proudly shows the pink plastic pouch around her neck that will, she says, protect her mobile phone "in case the dinghy sinks".  
Hers is a multigenerational family of 16; the boat trip will cost EUR 12,000. Her father owned a falafel shop in Syria; it was destroyed, along with their house, in a bombing. He is reluctant to put the family at risk of drowning - they have heard the stories of the deaths at sea, and some of the life jackets for sale from stalls in Izmir are fake, destined to sink. But Isra'a's teenage cousin points out that shells fell on them all the time in Syria, so "how can we be scared of the waves?"
Always smiling, Isra'a talks of the family "building a new life". But when we meet her again later, hundreds of walked and bussed miles away, she has seen two children die of cold at a chaotic refugee camp on the Macedonian border, where her own family spend days huddled in the rain and mud without shelter. Isra'a's father worries how she will be able to handle all that she has seen. 
A million migrants made the journey to Europe in 2015. So we follow Anas, who is 24, from the start of his journey in the destroyed city of Aleppo, to see what he and many others have left behind. When Anas leaves his partially bombed building for the airport, snipers shoot at his taxi all along the route. He jokes about their poor aim, underlining how bizarrely accustomed he has grown to that reality. 
In Kabul a family of sisters and their brother have sold everything to leave for Europe. We see them crowd around an iPad to watch news of a woman being stoned in the city. It's a disturbing mix of modern technology showing an utterly medieval punishment. 
It's easy to predict that this ambitious and necessary film will win every documentary award going. What is uncertain is what will happen to all the refugees it allows us to get close to - and when or if, after the long, harrowing journey, they will reach their goal. 
Final credits 
Several months ago I noticed that my sofa had taken on a peculiar shape. Of the three seat cushions, two were still firm. The third, at the end of the sofa where I sit to watch TV, had a backside-shaped dent that no amount of plumping or the upholstery version of panel beating could smooth out. I took that as the first sign.  
The second was when, in response to a warning that my mailbox was full, I set to clearing ancient emails and discovered that I took over as the Irish Times TV critic more than six years ago. That sparked a memory - are mailboxes the modern, less tasty madeleines? - of the conversation at the beginning, when I thanked my editor for such a plum job and told him that I would be happy to do it for three years. 
That seemed seemed to me, at the time, a good stretch for a weekly column. As a deadline stickler I am amazed at how easily I overshot that self-imposed endline. That was also a cautionary reminder of how quickly years pass without me fully noticing. 
There was a growing sense that although television drama is enjoying a golden age of storytelling brilliance - it is rare to come across a turkey - for every Exodus there are 20 observational docu-duds. For every Veep there are hours of laugh-free comedies, shouty talent competitions and chatshows long past their amuse-by days. 
The balance between watching TV for enjoyment and watching it in order to write about it - a sure privilege - had shifted to spending too many dutiful hours watching programmes I would never otherwise bother with. 
And so, after much more 250,000 words about what's on the box, I'm losing the remote control - for once, intentionally - and getting off the sofa. 
 tvreview@irishtimes.com
Ones to Watch The art of deception and deceptive art  
nA promising rummage around the Victorian dressing-up box and a new version of a Joseph Conrad classic: the three-part The Secret Agent (Sunday, BBC One) is set in 1886 London, where Verloc (Toby Jones) runs a seedy shop in Soho. Unknown to his loyal wife, Winnie (Vicky McClure), Verloc is being paid by the Russian embassy to spy on a dangerous group of anarchists. 
nAlso on Sunday, a favourite returns to BBC One with Fake or Fortune, in which the plummy art detectives Philip Mould (left) and Fiona Bruce investigate more thrilling cases of art-world mystery, intrigue and deception. First up, a Lucian Freud - or is it?


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: TURKEY (94%); SYRIA (90%); EUROPE (90%); GREECE (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               532 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Heady times for wine investors could end with a Brexit hangover

BYLINE: Alan Livsey

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2383 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Fine wine does not take well to shaking - sloshing the sediments around the bottle only muddles the product inside.
Yet similar upheaval has hit the market for top wines over the past five years. Having grown as an alternative asset class on the back of booming demand from international buyers, the wine market boasts its own global stock exchange, Liv-ex, which provides real-time pricing on anything from Petrus to Latour. However, wine collectors may find its five-year investment performance somewhat unpalatable.
Following decades of heady returns, the global wine bubble arguably burst in 2011 following China's anti-corruption clampdown. By the beginning of this year, the Liv-ex Fine Wine 50 index had fallen 40 per cent from the peak.
This year, there was hope that the hangover could be lifting. Prices had begun to rise again. But by the spring, the unwelcome surprise of higher-than-expected prices in the key Bordeaux wine region caused many private investors to question whether they could ever profit from the traditional system of selling the world's top wines. As if that was not enough, Brexit happened - with the resulting crash in sterling immediately leading to higher prices for UK consumers of imported wines.
This has left investors in an uncomfortable position. Having examined the data, FT Money assesses how recent events have gone down with wine investors, and whether they will buy, sell or be likely to turn to drink.
Break for the Bordeaux 
If you have a taste for investing in wine, you must first understand how France's premium wine market operates. The annual highlight of the wine merchant's calendar is the en primeur market in Bordeaux, the closest thing the wine world has to a futures market. Every spring, the best of the region's winemakers provide merchants with a chance to acquire their product early, before it even enters the bottle.
The châteaux offer limited en primeur allocations to the market only through authorised French distributors known as négociants, who in turn offer the wine to other merchants around the world. Usually after about two years the wine is delivered. This arrangement has worked well for both sides. While négociants receive exclusivity over the top wines, they also can provide working capital to the châteaux by buying up stock from them in lesser vintages. Other French regions, such as Burgundy, do not offer such early access to their wines.
For consumers and investors, en primeur has proved a popular way to buy the best wines at a discount to final retail prices, especially when reviewers gave high marks for any given vintage. A bull market in fine wine during the noughties, bolstered by the entry of wealthy Chinese investors, has previously made early buying of the best vintages a good investment. Chinese buyers initially focused exclusively on the best from Bordeaux, pushing up prices.
Following two remarkable vintages in 2009 and 2010, Bordeaux prices have fallen since 2011. That has been bad news for the UK's fine wine merchants and traders - typically, Bordeaux's top wines can make up three-quarters of their business.
The economic slowdown in China, coupled with effective anti-corruption campaigns aimed at public officials - expensive wine made popular gifts - has reduced wine exports to the country in recent years. According to French customs data, the export value of Bordeaux's most expensive wines (on average £100 per bottle) sent to Greater China (China and Hong Kong) halved between 2011 and 2014. Mediocre vintages since did not help, and a bearish period followed; over the past five years the Liv-ex index of the 50 best wines in Bordeaux has dropped by about a third. That was not uniform across France (or other countries). In other regions, especially Burgundy, prices held up.
However, prices in Bordeaux had begun to recover over the past year or so. Then came the 2015 en primeur season. In April, Liv-ex, the London-based online wine exchange, surveyed its 440 members on the price increases they would expect from a selection of ten top châteaux: on average, they expected 18 per cent. In fact, the best reviews since 2010 gave the top châteaux the confidence to mark up prices by about 50 per cent. This dismayed wine investors, who considered the rise too aggressive.
Bad taste in the mouth 
The resulting fallout has left many wine investors questioning whether buying en primeur still makes sense, or if there are better opportunities to profit elsewhere in the market.
Already fighting a weakening pound, UK buyers were put off. As an example, La Mission Haut Brion doubled its release price over that of the previous vintage to EUR300 (£250) per bottle.
"We were hoping the châteaux would be reasonable with their pricing," said Stephen Browett, chairman of Bordeaux specialist Farr Vintners. Despite strong interest from customers for 2015 wines, en primeur  sales, though better than the year before at £7m, were well below expectations of at least three times that figure.
Some merchants, such as Caspar Bowes of Bowes Wine, wonder if the en primeur system is workable. "I am extremely keen that the Bordelais drop this stupid way of doing business. Evaluating wines at that early stage is problematic." Much can change between purchase and bottling, he believes.
Others question the motivation of the top makers. As UK merchants see it, the châteaux have healthy balance sheets, fattened by rising prices in the decade up to 2010. Meanwhile, négociants in France and UK merchants have seen their operating profit margins cut in half since 2011 to low single digits.
Some, such as Browett, blame the fact that ownership of the châteaux has shifted from families, for which the négociant system worked well, providing growers with working capital, to faceless international corporations and hugely wealthy individuals. These types of owners may shrug at the problems of merchants and consumers.
Mathieu Chadronnier of French négociant CVBG sees things differently. "There has been a long-term trend of changing ownership," he believes. "It is nothing new." Demand and the structure of the market has changed irrevocably in the past decade, not the suppliers.
Brexit uncorked 
Then came another shudder to global wine markets: the Brexit vote.
Last month's decision by UK voters to exit the EU has had an immediate impact via the sharp drop in the British pound, down as much as 15 per cent versus the US dollar, and almost as much against the euro. Sterling had already been falling against major currencies since last year on worries about the vote, but this latest plunge has made Continental wines even more expensive to British buyers.
Post-Brexit, any fine wine bought in sterling and held in the UK has fallen in price in most currencies. Britain is Bordeaux's third most important market after Greater China and the US, according to the Bordeaux Wine Council.
On the other hand, Brexit has created some good buying opportunities for non-sterling based investors, after years of watching fine wine prices go nowhere. This will benefit opportunistic buyers in Europe, the US and Asia (especially Hong Kong with its dollar-linked currency) but has also provided a boost for those UK businesses that sell overseas, and hope for investors who are looking for bids for their wine.
"Export sales have jumped," notes Farr Vintners' Mr Browett. "June sales were the best [for that month] since 2011."
Chinese buyers may be more selective than in years past, but they certainly have not gone away. Measured in value terms, half of Bordeaux's finest wines went to Asia last year, mostly to Greater China. Asia's share of Bordeaux's export market has more than doubled over the past decade. Indeed, after several declining years, demand from Greater China improved in 2015.
As important as China is to Bordeaux, the latter is important to the wine trade. Bordeaux makes much of the fine wine France produces.
Top châteaux, such as Lafite Rothschild, can annually produce 20,000 cases of their best label. Meanwhile, top producers in Burgundy, such as Domaine de la Romanée-Conti, measure their output not in cases, but in individual bottles. With minimal supply for some highly rated wines, Burgundy rightly has some of the priciest wines.
Fluctuating demand for Bordeaux wines, then, definitely affects business. Even if fine wine prices from other French regions, or even countries, have performed well compared with Bordeaux - the best of rest of the world are up 26 per cent over five years - that region's product remains key to volume of trade. Online wine marketplaces, such as Liv-ex and Cavex, depend on turnover to earn commissions; Bordeaux accounts for between 60-80 per cent of their trade. For merchants in the UK it is a similar proportion.
Changing investment tastes 
Bordeaux en primeur  prices going up at the same time that sterling is falling is clearly a bad combination for UK investors. However, professional wine investors, such as Miles Davis at Wine Asset Managers (WAM), could not care less about en primeur . And given the thinner margins in recent years he wonders how so many wine merchants stay in business.
Does he dabble in the en primeur  market? "Never, not at all". His nose is devoted to hunting for value in older vintages on wine merchant price lists or via the wine market exchanges that have appeared in the past decade or so.
Wine investment funds enjoyed the favour of the investment community in the mid-noughties. A move to put these funds into UK self-invested pension plans (Sipps) helped their popularity, as did the first push of Far Eastern buyers into the fine wine market. Also some proponents may have hoped that the wine fund returns would not move in line with other assets such as equities, bonds or even other collectibles such as fine art. That much came true - but mostly because fine wine prices did not keep up with these other markets.
Few funds survive today, beyond WAM and The Wine Investment Fund. The latter, the first of its kind, began trading in 2003 and now has £30m of assets under management.
Chris Smith, investment manager at TWIF, also avoids buying en primeur , seeing better value in older vintages. He would still avoid buying the highly rated 2009 or 2010 vintages as too much supply still exists, some from previous buyers who have lost money.
Instead, his approach is to focus on the top names in Bordeaux from earlier years, such as top wines from the 1990s and noughties, including Château Margaux 1996, which owners will have already begun to consume. Supply will be limited and falling, even if these wines will still be drinking for years.
Private investor Keith Prothero has similar views. Following some simple rules, he only invests in wines likely to drink for decades more, such as Château Haut Brion 1989. Not every vintage qualifies.
Also, it helps to buy these wines in bond (before any VAT or customs duty). Wine traders will not compensate you for any VAT paid, he believes. Most important, check the provenance of the wine. Unfortunately, not only is wine occasionally poorly stored but it can also be counterfeited. Using reputable dealers usually avoids this problem.
Though Mr Prothero would happily invest in Burgundy, he finds supply of the best wines too limited. As a result he usually sticks to top Bordeaux.
For all the turmoil this year, fine wine prices are rising partly due to the weakness of sterling. Liv-ex price indices of fine wine have risen steadily all year, even more so since the Brexit vote. Indeed, the Liv-ex vintage fine wine indices have outpaced the FTSE 100 (including dividends) this year.
Mr Smith still sees opportunities. "The market is moving around very quickly at the moment," he says, "so [investors] need to be completely on top of what is happening, really on an hourly basis."
For a business sometimes known for its sleepiness, this year has brought back some rock and roll to the wine trade.
Changing times
Decanting fine wine into the 21st century
"The fine wine market is a little like stockbroking in the 1950s," says James Miles founder of Liv-ex, the London-based online marketplace for wine. Launched in 2000, its aim was to bring the wine trade into the new millennium.
Of course, others saw the potential of the internet, too. Other exchanges, offering private wine investors access to each other's portfolios, also opened around that time. Unfortunately, technology and internet speeds could not always keep up, sometimes causing these start-ups to fail.
Better technology and tighter financial scrutiny has enabled online exchanges to grow and even prosper. Liv-ex aims to offer merchants and investors the opportunity to trade with relatively low commissions of about 2 per cent, much lower than merchants typically charge. It also sells price and volume data accumulated from many thousands of trades, as well as having a logistics and storage service.
Its aim is to create electronic international trading and settlement of wine with franchised warehouses, similar to the London Metals Exchange. Liv-ex completed its first fully integrated electronic trade last month.
Liv-ex and other exchanges have led to more transparency in a still inefficient market, says Miles Davis at Wine Asset Managers. Even so, with UK merchants happy to get low double-digit profit margins on wine sales, exchange commissions are still sizeable.
Going online to drive down costs is hardly a new phenomenon. In recent years, peer-to-peer online exchanges have begun to spring up again, including Cavex which began life in 2013.
Established wine sellers with deep broking lists, such as Berry Brothers, have their own client exchanges to keep business in house. Even smaller merchants have set up auction sites: Bowes Wine, for example, has set up Grape Pip for both trade and private investors, using commission rates roughly between those of Liv-ex and what a typical merchant might charge.
There is hope for exchanges, given that Liv-ex is currently cash-generative and self-funding. Though its trade is small as a proportion of world wine trade, at less than 4 per cent, a fragmented market offers an opportunity.
Technology and the wider international appeal of fine wine should bring down trading costs. Getting merchants to accept their possible redundancy, though, will not happen quickly.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               533 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: How Brexit could shrink final-salary fund payouts; Q&A David Prosser answers your questions

BYLINE: David Prosser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 1068 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For the 11 million members of final-salary pension schemes, the Brexit vote brings doubt over the security of their supposedly gold-plated savings. These schemes promise guaranteed pensions to their members, but this depends on there being enough money to pay for it.
In a final-salary scheme members get a guaranteed level of pension on retirement from their employer. To pay for these benefits, the employer invests employees' pension contributions, along with its own money, in the company pension fund. However, these funds are around £384 billion short of the cash they need to make good on the pension promises made to staff, and the gap is growing fast. According to figures from the Pension Protection Fund, this collective deficit rose by 30 per cent last month, as the gilt yields that underpin pension schemes tumbled as a result of the Leave decision.
Will I still get my pension?
Not all employers are in deficit and the deficit is a measure of every penny of pension an employer has to pay out over many years compared with the value of its present assets, so it doesn't mean there isn't enough money to pay pensions right now. The Pensions Regulator requires employers with pension-scheme deficits to put in place a plan to return the fund to surplus over the coming years.
Why are deficits so high?
The immediate spike is a result of what has happened in financial markets since the Brexit vote. Most significantly, pension schemes value their liabilities - what they'll have to pay out in the future - by looking at the yield on gilts, which are bonds issued by the government. Yields fall when gilt prices rise and because investors have flocked to safer assets with government-backed guarantees, prices have soared and the yield on gilts is at an all-time low.
Even before the referendum, many schemes had sizeable deficits. Gilt yields have been suppressed for a number of years - not least because the Bank of England has been buying them during its quantitative-easing programmes to stimulate the economy - and many schemes' investments, which include shares, bonds and property, have performed poorly.
Some pension funds' "ability to underwrite pension deficits and risk taking may have deteriorated significantly", warns Le Roy van Zyl, a senior consultant at Mercer. "Uncertainty may be here for some time."
Should I be worried?
As long as your company is able to stand behind the promises it has made to employees, your pension is safe - the deficit remains a purely theoretical concern. However, even large and successful companies can fail. If your employer were to go out of business it would cease working towards reducing the pension-scheme deficit and leave members facing a black hole in the fund supposed to support them in retirement. This has happened in highprofile cases such as the collapse of BHS and Tata Steel.
What happens then?
The Pension Protection Fund (PPF), the government's lifeboat scheme, would take charge of the pension scheme. Those already receiving their pension will carry on getting the same amount of money, while those yet to retire will have 90 per cent of their pension protected, up to a maximum annual benefit of £33,700.
So while the PPF offers protection, people yet to retire could will still lose money - possibly quite substantial sums if they have built up large entitlements.
Does the PPF have enough money?
That is a concern. The scheme is funded through a levy on all employers that operate final-salary pension schemes, but the scale of the sums at stake is huge - at Tata Steel and BHS alone the deficits come to more than £1 billion. Cass Business School has forecast that up to 1,000 pension schemes could end up in the PPF over the next few years and that they will be in a combined deficit of £45billion. That would be overwhelming.
How do I know if I'm at risk?
First, is your pension scheme in deficit and if so what is it doing about it?
The most recent annual report published by the trustees to the scheme will tell you. Second, how financially stable is your employer?
Is it trading well?
How does its balance sheet look?
Would it be safer to take my pension elsewhere?
For the majority of people, no. Despite the anxieties, final-salary pensions are far more generous than other arrangements. If you move to another arrangement you'll miss out on the contributions your employer is making to your retirement funds, plus you'll lose the guarantee of a certain level of retirement income. These are such valuable benefits that the government insists anyone transferring more than £30,000 of pension savings out of a final-salary scheme must take independent financial advice.
What about additional savings?
Many defined-benefit schemes offer the option of making additional voluntary contributions (AVCs), which effectively buy you more guaranteed pension. The alternative is to make additional pension savings outside your company scheme - in a personal pension or an individual savings account, for example.
"If you're able to make additional contributions into a defined-benefit scheme we would recommend this instead of starting a new pension arrangement," says Patrick Connolly, a chartered financial planner at the independent adviser Chase de Vere.
Should my company be doing more to protect me?
All companies have to make difficult decisions about what they do with the profits they generate, and the pension scheme is one of several competing interests - not least alongside the business's need to invest for the future. However, there is concern that some companies have been overgenerous with the dividends they pay to their shareholders, with their pension scheme suffering as a result. An analysis published recently by AJ Bell, the pension-scheme adviser, found that 54 FTSE 100 companies with a collective scheme deficit of £52 billion have paid out £48 billion to shareholders over the past two years - almost enough to close the gap. The Pension Regulator says pension-scheme trustees need to be tougher on companies that are favouring shareholders over their pension schemes.
Will final-salary schemes disappear?
Most final-salary schemes are closed to new members; existing members had their benefits frozen at the moment the scheme closed and have been switched into alternative arrangements. Expect more employers to take these steps in the future.
Some companies may have been overgenerous with the dividends they pay to shareholders
Graphic
Company pension funds are coming up £384 billion short of what is required


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               534 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ireland's growth outlook gets downgraded in wake of Brexit

BYLINE: Colm Kelpie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 542 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: SPECIALIST bank Investec has downgraded Ireland's growth prospects for this year and next in the wake of the Brexit vote.
It is the second global bank to revise down Ireland's GDP forecasts since the vote to pull out of the EU, with Cantor FitzGerald changing its forecasts within a week of the poll.
In an economic update to investors, Investec said GDP this year would grow by 4.8pc, 0.2 percentage points lower than forecast, and by 3.5pc in 2017, 0.5 percentage points lower.
"These cuts reflect greater caution about the prospects for export and investment growth in a post-Brexit world, which is partly offset by a stronger consumer profile as labour market data continue to impress," Investec economist Philip O'Sullivan wrote.
Mr O'Sullivan repeated the oft-used warning that as a small open economy, Ireland is vulnerable to global shocks.
He referred to the massive 26pc GDP growth rate for 2015, announced by the Central Statistics Office this week, noting a truer reflection of the health of the economy are tax revenues, retail sales and employment growth. But he warned: "As a small open economy, Ireland is not immune to international headwinds. The recent deterioration in the UK's prospects is clearly unhelpful in this regard, but it is worth noting that fivesixths of Irish exports go to markets other than the country's next door neighbour."
Investec said 2016 will be characterised as having a relatively strong first half to the year, particularly on the domestic side of the economy, while "weakening is inevitable" in the wake of the referendum.
It comes as Bank of England chief economist Andy Haldane said the regulator needs to act "promptly as well as muscularly" to stimulate the UK economy and boost confidence.
In his first speech since the vote, Mr Haldane said the BoE needed to come up with a "package of mutually-complementary monetary policy easing measures" in time for a rate-setting meeting on August 4. Meanwhile Mr O'Sullivan moved to downplay the impact on Ireland's exporting sector from the Brexit decision. "While the UK remains a major trading partner for Ireland, its relative importance has declined over the past few decades.
"At the time that Ireland joined the then European Economic Community, some 58pc of merchandise exports went over the border into Northern Ireland or across the Irish Sea to Britain," Mr O'Sullivan said.
"Last year only 14pc of merchandise exports went to Ireland's next door neighbour. "In the short term, a weak sterling is a headwind for many Irish exporters.
"Longer-term, the ultimate impact of Brexit on Ireland will be determined by the trading arrangements struck between the UK and the rump EU."
Meanwhile, separate data showed some volatility in the export data. Goods exports fell 1pc in May compared with April, and by 3pc compared with the same month last year, preliminary figures from the Central Statistics Office showed.
Seasonally adjusted goods exports decreased by (EURO)99m to (EURO)9.17bn compared with April. Goods imports for the same month jumped 7pc to (EURO)5.2bn leading to a decrease of (EURO)441m, of 10pc, in the seasonally adjusted trade surplus to (EURO)3.96bn in May.
'In the short term,  ;  ;  a weak sterling is a  ;  ;  headwind for  ;  ;  many exporters'  ;


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               535 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May meets Sturgeon for Brexit talks but rules out independence; New prime minister assures Sturgeon she is 'willing to listen to options'

BYLINE: Denis Staunton

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 318 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Theresa May has told Scotland's first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, that she is willing to listen to options about Scotland's future relationship with the European Union, but she rejected a second referendum on Scottish independence.
The new British prime minister went to Edinburgh less than 48 hours after entering office with a declaration of her commitment to keep the United Kingdom together.
"I'm willing to listen to options, and I've been very clear with the first minister today that I want the Scottish government to be fully engaged in our discussion," Ms May said.
"I have already said that I won't be triggering article 50 until I think that we have a UK approach and objectives for negotiations - I think it is important that we establish that before we trigger article 50."
Ms Sturgeon said she and the prime minister were from very different parts of the political spectrum, but she welcomed Ms May's commitment to consulting the Scottish government on Brexit options.
'Fully involved' 
"I was very pleased that Theresa May said that she was absolutely willing to consider any options that the Scottish government now bring forward to secure Scotland's relationship with the [EU], that the process that now takes shape by the UK government will be open and flexible, and that the Scottish government will be fully involved in that," she said.  
"It would be inconceivable for any prime minister to seek to stand in the way of a referendum if that is what the Scottish parliament voted for," she said. 
After a reshaping of the government on Thursday, Ms May paused yesterday before reshuffling the junior ministries, while it emerged that her predecessor, David Cameron, had ordered one-off payments worth a quarter of a million pounds to political special advisers. 
The political appointees, who had expected to be employed until September, lost their jobs this week when Ms May became prime minister.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               536 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May signals Brexit delay until 'all UK agrees' xit

BYLINE: Laura Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 652 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: NEW British Prime Minister Theresa May has indicated that Brexit could be delayed as she said she will not trigger the formal process for leaving the EU until there is an agreed "UK approach" backed by Scotland.
Her announcement is likely to infuriate EU chiefs who want the negotiations to begin as quickly as possible.
Ms May travelled to Scotland to meet Nicola Sturgeon, the First Minister, and discuss plans for Britain's Brexit negotiation.
In a sign that she is committed to keeping the union intact, she said she will not trigger Article 50 - the formal process for withdrawing from the EU - until all the devolved nations in the country agree.
Anger Her comments will prompt anger from EU leaders, who want Ms May to trigger Article 50 as soon as possible.
Speaking in Edinburgh, Ms May said: "I have already said that I won't be triggering Article 50 until I think that we have a UK approach and objectives for negotiations. I think it is important that we establish that before we trigger Article 50."
Ms Sturgeon has promised to explore every option to keep Scotland in the EU, and has repeatedly warned that if that is not possible as part of the UK, it is "highly likely" to lead to a second independence vote.
The prime minister said: "As far as I'm concerned, the Scottish people had their vote, they voted in 2014, and a very clear message came through, both the United Kingdom and the Scottish Government said they would abide by that."
Speaking before the meeting, only the third between the pair, she said her visit to Scotland demonstrated her commitment to "preserving this special union that has endured for centuries".
Ms Sturgeon said afterwards that she had received an assurance that the UK Government would be "open and flexible" to options in the forthcoming Brexit process.
She added: "I was very pleased that Theresa May said that she was absolutely willing to consider any options that the Scottish Government now bring forward to secure Scotland's relationship with the European Union, and that the process that now takes shape by the UK Government will be open and flexible and that the Scottish Government will be fully involved in that.
"I have been very clear that we have to make sure that Scotland's interests are protected and I want to examine every option of doing that."
Speaking after the meeting, Nicola Sturgeon said she was determined to protect Scotland's current relationship with the European Union.
She added that the meeting with the new prime minister has been "constructive".
"There is an agreement that Scottish government officials will be very closely involved in discussions," she said.
Ms Sturgeon insisted she would "consider all the options" along the way. "The prime minister knows, as everybody else knows, that a second independence referendum is of course on the table because Scotland finds itself now in the position of facing exit from the EU against our will," she said.
Offensive Meanwhile, Labour has called on the new Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom to resign after she suggested men should not be nannies because they might be "paedophiles".
Labour shadow minister Jon Ashworth said: "This is an extraordinarily offensive statement from the new Environment Secretary.
"Andrea Leadsom should apologise immediately and Ms May should also distance herself from these comments."
Ms May's official spokeswoman said Ms May had confidence in the minister, adding: "These were personal views that were expressed, and she, as in Andrea Leadsom, has said that she employed a male nanny for five years, and doesn't think that men, or fathers, shouldn't be nannies."
A spokeswoman for Ms Leadsom said the minister had employed a male nanny and "was not saying that men are unsuitable as nannies."
'As far as I'm  ;  ;  concerned, the  ;  ;  Scottish people  ;  ;  had their vote,  ;  ;  they voted in 2014,  ;  ;  and a very clear  ;  ;  message came  ;  ;  through'  ;
Graphic
UK Prime MinisterTheresa May (left) meets Scotland's First MinisterNicola Sturgeon, at Bute House in www.Edinburgh.UK Prime MinisterTheresa May (left) meets with Scotland's First MinisterNicola Sturgeon at Bute House INEdinburgh. Photo: Andrew Milligan/PAConfidence: Andrea Leadsom


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); SCOTLAND (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               537 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May 'willing to listen' to Scotland over Brexit plan

BYLINE: Mike Wade

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 701 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May dampened SNP hopes of a second independence referendum but promised she will not trigger Brexit until she has secured a UK-wide approach to negotiations to quit the EU. Describing her first meeting with Nicola Sturgeon as "very positive", the prime minister was, however, blunt about the prospects for a re-run of the 2014 independence ballot.
Mrs May said: "The question is, should there be a second referendum? As far as I'm concerned, the Scottish people have had their vote. They voted in 2014 and a very clear message came through. Both the United Kingdom and the Scottish governments said they would abide by that."
She was adamant that she would not trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty until "we have a United Kingdom approach and objectives for the negotiations" with the EU. It would, however, be a challenge, Mrs May conceded, to secure the best possible deal for the whole of the UK.
"I want the Scottish government to be fully engaged in our discussions and considerations," Mrs May added. She would listen to any options or ideas her opposite number brought forward.
The prime minister's readiness to embrace the SNP's role in deal-making was warmly welcomed by Ms Sturgeon.
She expressed delight that Mrs May had been "absolutely willing to consider any options that the Scottish government now brings forward to secure Scotland's relationship with the EU".
Both women approached business in the same way, the first minister said, and she believed the two could develop a good working relationship despite their political differences. Later Ms Sturgeon appeared to emphasise the point, tweeting a picture of the two leaders together on the steps of Bute House, her official residence.
She wrote: "Politics aside - I hope girls everywhere look at this photograph and believe nothing should be off limits for them."
The 45-minute meeting in Edinburgh was one of Mrs May's first engagements since taking office on Wednesday and served to emphasise the importance she places on preserving the union. Her efforts to douse nationalist expectations were in marked contrast to the comments of Ruth Davidson, the Scottish Conservative leader, who in the aftermath of the EU referendum said that a new prime minster should not deny a re-run of the 2014 vote.
Ms Sturgeon has already said it is "highly likely" there will be another independence ballot after 62 per cent of Scots voted to remain in the EU.
She insisted that the prime minister was aware the option was on the table, if it proved impossible to "protect our relationship with the European Union".
On all sides, there is a feeling that yesterday's meeting allowed the two leaders to make their opening gambits in what promises to be a long and fraught period of negotiation at home and abroad.
Ms Sturgeon and her allies know that only Westminster can pass legislation authorising an independence referendum and that any new vote organised through the Scottish parliament would face the prospect of a legal challenge.
One leading SNP MP said: "I think Theresa May would be foolish to refuse a second referendum. At this stage the ball is very much in their court if they can keep us with them and find a way through this."
Stephen Gethins, the SNP's Europe spokesman accused the UK government of sending out "mixed messages" about the UK's future relationship with Europe. He appeared to hint at a federal Britain as a possible way forward, "where Scotland remains in the European Union within the United Kingdom".
David Mundell, the Scottish secretary, said that the notion of any deal that kept Scotland both in the UK and EU was "fanciful".
Alex Salmond, the former first minister, has predicted that Mrs May will cave in under pressure from Holyrood if it votes for another independence referendum. He struck a less conciliatory note than most of his colleagues. "Don't mess with the people of Scotland," he said.
Jackie Baillie, for Scottish Labour, welcomed the commitment of the two leaders to work together.
"People voted overwhelmingly for Scotland to stay inside the EU and the UK. Respecting the democratic will of people across Scotland and finding a solution that delivers on both results should be their first priority," she said.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%); SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               538 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: No Brexit risk for DCC after good Q1

BYLINE: Michael Cogley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 193 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: DIVERSIFIED Irish distribution and logistics group DCC will be safe from any material impact on its business following the UK's decision to leave the EU.
DCC said it doesn't expect Brexit to have any major impact on its business but tips a "modest" boost in profits should sterling remain low.
"Almost 50pc of the group's operating profits are generated outside of the UK and so the group's reported operating profit would benefit modestly from favourable translation should sterling remain at current values, or depreciate further," the company said.
The firm's operating profit in the first quarter of the year was "significantly ahead" of the prior year.
DCC said the increase in profits was down to the performance of DCC Energy, which benefited from acquisitions completed last year and from strong organic operating profit growth.
Trading in each of the company's divisions namely Healthcare, Technology, and Environmental was ahead of the previous year.
The group said its acquisition of Danish retail, aviation, and commercial fuels business Dansk Fuels is proceeding in line with expectations.
DCC expects the deal to be completed in the second half of 2016.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (88%); DENMARK (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               539 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Politics shaken to the core by 22-day tempest; Brexit fallout: Constitutional upheaval

BYLINE: Henry Mance, Political Correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 725 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: After one of the most violent tempests in British political history, there was a sense at Westminster this weekend that calm may be returning, or at least that the theatrics have reached the interval.
"[It has been] the most extraordinary time in British politics in the postwar era," said Alan Renwick, deputy director of University College London's Constitution Unit.
In the 22 days since the EU referendum, the UK has seen the resignation of the prime minister, a formal challenge to the leader of the Opposition, two abrupt withdrawals from the Conservative leadership race, a damning official report into the military, intelligence and diplomatic services, the accelerated appointment of a new prime minister, the sacking of eight cabinet ministers, and the creation of three new government departments.
But the Conservative leadership is resolved and the Brexit result has turned into a medium-term challenge after the initial surprise. Of all the political crises, it is the Labour leadership contest that could yet intensify.
Simon Blackwell, the comedy writer who worked on The Thick of It , the satirical drama that "found comedy in chaos behind the façade", said there was "no façade any more" in British politics. Yet the façade has partly returned with the arrival of Theresa May at Downing Street and her appointment of a team that encompasses key Brexiters, such as Boris Johnson, foreign secretary, and some Remainers, such as Amber Rudd, the home secretary.
"Has she produced a great cabinet? She produced what you have to do - a mixture of the different factions of the Tory party," said Tim Bell, an adviser to former premier Margaret Thatcher.
David Davis, Brexit minister, is expected to engage in months of preparatory work before formal negotiations. Mrs May has said she will not trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, the process for leaving the EU, this year.
This week the Conservatives were able to cut short their leadership election, form a new administration and regroup. By contrast, Labour is braced for at least two more months of civil war: the official opposition party said its own leadership contest would not be resolved until September 24.
Labour continues to be hit by various misfortunes, mostly of its own making, following the refusal of Jeremy Corbyn, its incumbent leader, to resign after losing a no-confidence vote among MPs.
It has suspended all activities by constituency parties after several local members complained of intimidation by Corbyn supporters. A meeting of top party figures to put Labour "on a general election footing" was cancelled thanks to the level of internal strife. Further divisions are likely to come out into the open on Monday when MPs vote on whether to order four new submarines for Britain's nuclear deterrent.
This week both Angela Eagle, former shadow business secretary, and Owen Smith, former work and pension secretary, put themselves forward as challengers to Mr Corbyn. Ms Eagle launched her campaign minutes before Mrs May was named Tory party leader; she then gave a speech just as Mrs May was entering Downing Street. Press coverage was unsurprisingly muted. Mr Smith cancelled his own launch yesterday following the Nice attack.
Bookmakers have proved an unreliable guide to recent British politics but they suggest Mr Corbyn will win the Labour contest. The prospect of a realignment, with a new centre-left party or an electoral alliance between moderate Labour MPs and the Liberal Democrats, would then become more real.
One ally of Mr Corbyn argued that such a realignment could also happen if Ms Eagle won. Her victory would "split the party" and would be like "Scotland on speed", the aide said, referring to the drastic loss of support for Labour north of the border. Much depends on the timing of the next general election, scheduled for 2020. Many in the Labour party are resigned to losing.
An early election could provide a focal point for the coming debates on Brexit and perhaps spur changes to the shape of British party politics. But it is legally tricky, given that legislation requires it to have either the support of two-thirds of MPs or a no-confidence motion passed by a simple majority.
"We are constitutionally constipated," said Lord Bell. "Someone has just got to keep us calm."
Editorial Comment page 10 Person in the news page 11 Janan Ganesh page 12


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               540 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Redesigning Conservatism will be harder than May thinks; Brexit promises to consume most of the government's energies

BYLINE: Janan Ganesh on Politics

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 943 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Until a new prime minister promises to govern for the privileged few, make the UK less unified and ignore social problems, it will never be interesting when one says the opposite. Outside 10 Downing Street on Wednesday, Theresa May aspired to the same ends as David Cameron in 2010 ("I want to make sure my government always looks after the elderly, the frail, the poorest"), Gordon Brown in 2007 ("I want the best of chances for everyone"), Tony Blair in 1997 ("We have secured a mandate to bring this nation together"), John Major in 1990 ("A better quality of life for all our citizens") and Margaret Thatcher in 1979 ("Where there is discord, may we bring harmony").
All prime ministers impress in this dreamlike opening chapter. Novelty, the benefit of the doubt and those candyfloss words buy them a few months' grace from scrutiny. Mrs May, knowing she will never be as powerful again unless she wins a general election, has used the moment to pluck the cabinet of Cameron consiglieri and install ministers in her own image. The government is now a bit less urban and liberal, even in its back rooms. The end of George Osborne, chancellor of the exchequer for six years, is also the retreat of a particular sensibility in public life.
If he and Mr Cameron reconciled Conservatives to modern Britain in all its cultural flux and godless consumption, Mrs May will attempt another kind of rapprochement between party and country. The Tories, defined by the market since Thatcher, will start to reflect voter disillusion with it. This could mean a slower and differently designed fiscal consolidation, with taxes doing more of the work, and active government support for industries and regions. It will almost certainly mean a labour market less porous to foreigners.
This grittier Conservatism, this Christian Democracy by another name, will raise hopes until it makes contact with two realities. The most obvious is the innate technical challenge of the task. Altering something as ingrained as a nation's economic model, and doing so without losing its advantages, is not just a matter of will. Every government wants to fix Britain's productivity problem, restore the English north and "start making things again". Even Mr Osborne aimed for a new (that is, old) kind of economy until he learnt to take growth wherever he could find it.
Philip Hammond, his replacement, and Greg Clark, the business and energy secretary, are quietly able. This does not mean they will have ideas of Schumpeterian genius that never occurred to ministers who have done their jobs since the war. We are probably not on the lip of a historic state-engineered tilt from London to the rest; from our services specialism to a proliferation of well-paid industrial jobs in poor, seething towns. It is easier to blunt those strengths, and to lift expectations, than to achieve what has defied past governments that were fat with talent and good intentions. Decrying elite indifference to "real people" is the cheapest applause line in politics. Helping them is the hardest feat.
The structural economic challenge blurs into the fiscal one. Mrs May's opening speech, the national mood and the public finances all invite a heftier contribution from the rich. But the logic of EU exit was, at least among Tories, always the opposite: less tax (and regulation) to compensate investors for any fetters on their access to the European market. Untangle that knot, chancellor.
The government's domestic ambitions must also fight for attention. The process of extrication from the EU will, in all but the most fantastic scenarios, occupy ministerial and bureaucratic capacity for most of the rest of the parliament. Mrs May must decide a model of exit that is simultaneously tolerable and achievable, and then commence diplomatic and technical work that will detain most branches of the central state. Britain is enmeshed with Europe in a 43-year-old body of laws. Exit may be the biggest all-government operation since fighting the second world war, and that took a multi-party administration in which every prominent figure agreed on the outcome. Mrs May has a 16-seat majority and almost as many views in her cabinet about the definition of exit .
Watching her all the while will be that part of the country that craves tangible change, that part of the country which wants as much continuity as possible, Eurosceptic MPs still smarting at being led by a Remainer and a media that is not going to dwell on innovative tweaks in regional enterprise funds while conflicts multiply between London and Brussels, business and public, Tory and Tory. However sincere the government's other aims, this is the medium-term future of British politics.
In 2010, the posts Mr Cameron gave to Liberal Democrats were ostensibly generous but laced with political trouble. Mrs May has done the same unto committed Leavers. Securing withdrawal and future trade are burdens that have fallen on David Davis and Liam Fox, respectively. No two MPs are more sanguine about exit. Perhaps this comes from analytic rigour and immersion in foreign capitals. The worry is that it flows from the kind of wishful thinking that congeals when you have held no executive office for years and get your foreign news from people who say "freedom" a lot.
Either way, any hope of containing the diffuse work ahead in their two posts, or three if Boris Johnson turns out to be more than a ceremonial foreign secretary, is probably forlorn. The process of exit will drain all else, including the prime minister's new Conservatism. The benign result could be a government that, domestically, acts much like Mr Cameron's.
janan.ganesh@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               541 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Sturgeon welcomes May's promise of 'UK-wide approach' to Brexit-EU talks

BYLINE: Nathalie Thomas in Edinburgh

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 388 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has sent a strong signal she will prioritise keeping Britain together over a swift exit from the EU, saying she will not trigger divorce proceedings until she secured a "UK-wide approach" to talks with Brussels.
Mrs May's comments came after her first official trip as premier, to Edinburgh for a meeting with Nicola Sturgeon. Scotland's first minister has said it is "highly likely" she will hold a second referendum on Scottish independence after last month's Brexit vote.
The new prime minister suggested she would be prepared to listen to "any options" brought forward by Edinburgh, which has made it clear it intends to secure Scotland's continued place in the EU after it voted overwhelmingly to remain in the 28-country bloc. "I won't be triggering Article 50 until I think that we have a UK approach and objectives for negotiations," Mrs May said, referring to the EU treaty provision that begins a two-year exit process . "I think it is important that we establish that before we trigger Article 50."
Even before becoming prime minister, Mrs May vowed not to invoke Article 50 before the end of the year, frustrating both European leaders who want a quick exit to prevent destabilising the rest of the EU, and Brexiters who question her resolve to break with Brussels.
By linking Article 50 to a common approach across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, Mrs May raises the prospect that formal Brexit talks may be delayed further into the future than previously anticipated.
Laura Cram, professor of European politics at Edinburgh university, said that due to "distinct" differences between the four UK countries, "if you are waiting for that to come together you may be waiting a long time".
Ms Sturgeon welcomed Mrs May's approach, saying they agreed that Scottish government officials will be "fully involved" in the Brexit process and reiterating a second independence vote is "of course on the table". "These negotiations have yet to take shape and the UK government don't yet know exactly how they will proceed from here," she said.
Philip Cowley, professor of politics at Queen Mary University, said the length of delay would depend on whether a "UK-wide approach" meant securing the agreement of Holyrood first.
Reports page 3 Editorial Comment page 10 Person in the news page 11 Janan Ganesh page 12


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (88%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); SCOTLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); WALES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               542 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Tempest shakes British politics; Brexit fallout: Constitutional upheaval

BYLINE: Henry Mance in London

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 763 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The June 23 vote to leave the EU triggered one of the most violent storms in British political history, one that has blown in an entirely new government. Yet at Westminster there is a sense that calm may be returning - or, at least, that the drama has reached an interval.
"[It has been] the most extraordinary time in British politics in the postwar era," said Alan Renwick, deputy director of University College London's Constitution Unit. Or, as satirical website The Daily Mash said: "UK officially assigned 'clown country' status."
In the 22 days since the EU referendum, the UK has seen the resignation of the prime minister, a formal challenge to the leader of the opposition, two abrupt withdrawals from the Conservative leadership race, a damning official report into the military, intelligence and diplomatic services, the accelerated appointment of a new prime minister, the sacking of eight cabinet ministers, and the creation of three new government departments.
But the Conservative leadership is resolved and the Brexit result has turned into a medium-term challenge after the initial surprise. Of all the political crises, it is the Labour leadership contest that could yet intensify.
Simon Blackwell, the comedy writer who worked on The Thick of It , the satirical drama that "found comedy in chaos behind the façade", said there was "no façade any more" in British politics. Yet the façade has partly returned with the arrival of Theresa May at Downing Street and her appointment of a team that encompasses leading Brexiters, such as Boris Johnson, foreign secretary, and some Remainers, such as Amber Rudd, the home secretary.
"Has she produced a great cabinet? She produced what you have to do - a mixture of the different factions of the Tory party," said Tim Bell, an adviser to former premier Margaret Thatcher.
David Davis, Brexit minister, is expected to engage in months of preparatory work before formal negotiations. Mrs May has said she will not trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, the process for leaving the EU, this year.
This week the Conservatives were able to cut short their leadership election, form a new administration and regroup. By contrast, Labour is braced for at least two more months of civil war: the official opposition party said its own leadership contest would not be resolved until September 24.
Labour continues to be hit by various misfortunes, mostly of its own making, following the refusal of Jeremy Corbyn, its incumbent leader, to resign after losing a no-confidence vote among MPs.
It has suspended all activities by constituency parties after several local members complained of intimidation by Mr Corbyn's supporters. A meeting of top party figures to put Labour "on a general election footing" was cancelled thanks to the level of internal strife. Further divisions are likely to come out into the open on Monday when MPs vote on whether to order four new submarines for Britain's nuclear deterrent.
This week both Angela Eagle, the former business spokeswoman, and Owen Smith, the former work and pension spokesman, put themselves forward as challengers to Mr Corbyn.
Ms Eagle launched her campaign minutes before Mrs May was named Conservative party leader; she then gave a major speech just as Mrs May was entering Downing Street. Press coverage was unsurprisingly muted. Mr Smith cancelled his own launch yesterday following the Nice attack.
Bookmakers have proved an unreliable guide to recent British politics but they suggest Mr Corbyn will win the Labour contest. The prospect of a realignment, with a new centre-left party or an electoral alliance between moderate Labour MPs and the Liberal Democrats, would then become more real.
One ally of Mr Corbyn argued that such a realignment could also happen if Ms Eagle won. Her victory would "split the party" and would be like "Scotland on speed", the aide said, referring to the drastic loss of support for Labour north of the border, where it holds only one seat in the Commons in Westminster.
Much depends on the timing of the next general election, scheduled for 2020. Many in the Labour party are resigned to losing.
An early election could provide a focal point for the coming debates on Brexit and perhaps spur changes to the shape of British party politics. But it is legally tricky, given that legislation requires it to have either the support of two-thirds of MPs or a no-confidence motion passed by a simple majority.
"We are constitutionally constipated," said Lord Bell. "Someone has just got to keep us calm."
Editorial Comment page 6 Person in the news page 7


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               543 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'The internet will trump Brexit even if retail sales weaken on slowdown'; The boss of the former Slough Estates believes he can reap benefits of reshaping his business, reports Tom Knowles

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 1179 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The company's future was hanging in the balance. Having spent the best part of a century reshaping industrial land as it expanded from its origins on the western fringes of London to amass a portfolio that spanned the globe, it looked as if it may not survive for another decade, let alone a further 100 years. In April 2011, emerging from a brutal recession and with European manufacturing in ominous decline, Segro turned to David Sleath.
The former accountant had joined only five years earlier as finance director, having never worked in property before. "I had bought two houses in my life and that was it." Yet an outsider's perspective helped the new chief executive to cast a critical eye over a sprawling portfolio. "We were at the end of the decline of UK and western European traditional manufacturing," he recalls. "I knew we had great assets in great locations, but also a lot of legacy and old industrial property. We had to work out where the company was going."
The answer was ecommerce. The rapid rise in online shopping was driving a demand for huge warehouses that could store, sort and package large amounts of bulk goods, as well as small parcel delivery centres on the edge of towns and cities. Logistical real estate, once seen as the poor relation of big office blocks and residential developments, was suddenly attracting attention.
"We could see that internet retailing was picking up and a lot of growth was coming. The UK has some of the highest internet sales penetration in the world and we could see the problem that was starting to create for retailers."
Mr Sleath began a company overhaul. A new focus would be placed on logistics centres and "lastmile" delivery distribution hubs. Operations in Europe were shut down, old industrial warehouses in Britain were disposed of and £2.2 billion of office and "non-core" assets were sold off. Five years after Mr Sleath, 55, took charge, Segro is seeing the benefits. It boasts a £5.8 billion portfolio of industrial land, pre-tax profit for 2015 was up 5 per cent to £686.45 million and the return on UK property was 19 per cent.
It was not the only industrial property developer to spot the potential in ecommerce, but where its boss believes it has an edge over its rivals is in its urban distribution centres, those last-mile delivery hubs, situated on the outskirts of cities and towns. These smaller sites offer direct access to large populations for clients such as Ocado and John Lewis, as well as parcel carriers such as Fedex, and now make up 47 per cent of Segro's portfolio.
This is likely to become even more of an asset as the demand for food retailers grows, especially with the arrival of Amazon Fresh. Mr Sleath is coy about Segro's discussions with Amazon's venture into food delivery, but adds: "You can't ignore Amazon, it's such a big player in our world. We are talking to them and involved in lots of different levels."
If Segro's name offers few clues about its origins, then its former name certainly does. Slough Estates started life in 1920 with the opening of the Slough trading estate, which began as a repair site for decommissioned military vehicles from the First World War. The site, still a £1 billion asset for Segro, expanded to become the largest trading estate under single ownership in the world.
The occupiers of its many warehouses and offices have become embedded in British culture. It was where the first Mars bar was made in 1932, where Peugeot and Ford were housed and where Thunderbirds and Captain Scarlet were filmed and produced. It included Crossbow House, named Slough's ugliest building, so ugly, in fact, that it featured in the opening sequence of The Office. Ricky Gervais' seminal comedy about life in a small company. The building has since been demolished and the site sold.
This diversity of occupants who take up Segro's warehouses, or "sheds" as the property world calls them, has not diminished. The portfolio includes Brompton Bikes, which rents a warehouse in Park Royal, west London; 22 data centres that are proving invaluable to financial firms; and Royal Mail's parcel hub at Heathrow. "If you want to ship or import something internationally, I guarantee it will almost certainly flow through our Heathrow distribution hub for Royal Mail," Mr Sleath says.
Even Britain's exit from the European Union does not seem to worry him. "In our sector, the headline is: the internet trumps Brexit. If retail sales weaken on the back of an economic slowdown, one thing we can be sure about is there will be sales growth online. If anything, I think we will see a slowdown in space that is built by our competitors."
However, he does admit that the company will hold off on acquisitions in the near term. "Now is not the time to be taking a lot of additional risk, so we will be a little bit cautious for the next two or three months. But I expect business to be back to normal come the autumn."
A more pressing concern is the "desperate land grab" being made by residential developers, especially in London. This is an issue for Segro and other industrial property specialists as they move into more dense urban areas. Mr Sleath is adamant that Britain's shortage of housing should not overshadow the need for industrial space: "In the last 25 years, 50 per cent of London's industrial land has disappeared and is now predicted to reduce by a third over the same period. If you turn every piece of brownfield land into a block of flats, London is going to have a problem and [it] will mean it doesn't work as a city."
Last month, Segro secured a deal with Barratt Homes to deliver both homes and warehouse space.
Eventually, he believes, houses will be built on top of warehouses, making the most of limited space.
Whatever the future holds, though, he is confident that the brand will thrive. "We have created a platform that should mean Segro is here in the decades and hopefully centuries to come. Which I'm not sure was the case in 2011."
Q&A Who or what is your mentor?
Ian Coull, my predecessor, encouraged me to become chief executive and I learnt so much from him about managing people
Does money motivate you?
Yes, to a point. I came from a fairly modest background and money was quite tight What is your favourite television programme?
For pure escapism  Sopranos, Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones How do you relax? I love good food and wine, especially with my close family. And holidays, sun and snow. I also exercise a lot
What does leadership mean to you?
Creating the platform for others to succeed in; set the strategic direction and keep scanning the horizon to adapt it; put in place and develop the right team, then step back; monitor progress and choose carefully how and when to jump into help or intervene
CV
Age: 55
Education: Bishop Gore School, Swansea; Warwick University Business School
Career: 1979-98: Arthur Andersen, trainee to equity partner; 1998-2005: Wagon plc, finance director; 2005-present: Segro, finance director, then chief executive; Other: July 2016: British Property Federation, president Family: Married, three children
Graphic
BEN GURR FOR THE TIMES; ITV/REX FEATURESDavid Sleath has overseen a revival in Segro's fortunes since becoming chief executive, if not quite a rescue act on the scale of Thunderbirds, filmed at one of its sites


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (88%); WESTERN EUROPE (57%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               544 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Thousands lose holidays as travel firm is 'hit by Brexit'

BYLINE: Andrew Ellson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 558 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Tens of thousands of people are set to lose their summer holidays and face a long battle to secure a refund after a major tour operator was placed in administration yesterday.
Thousands of Britons in overseas resorts also face being asked to pay again for their hotel accommodation and transfers after the Low Cost Travel Group collapsed. However, no one should be left stranded overseas because all flights home had already been paid for, the administrators said.
Smith & Williamson and CMB Partners, the two companies appointed to wind up Low Cost Travel Group, said that it had about 27,000 customers in resorts and 110,000 waiting to travel. About two thirds are British.
The company's brands include Low Cost Holidays, www.Hoteling.com and            www.Lowcostbeds.com.
The administrators said that a range of factors had contributed to the group's demise, including fewer bookings before the EU referendum.
Finbarr O'Connell, of Smith & Williamson, said: "The group experienced significant market headwinds in the run-up to the EU referendum as holidaymakers delayed decisions. This was compounded by the Leave vote and the subsequent fall in value of the pound."
The administrators warned holidaymakers abroad that their hotels may ask them to pay for their stay even though they had already paid in advance for their trip. Low Cost Holidays is understood not to have settled all accommodation bills before going into administration.
All customers who have not yet travelled will have to re-book and repay for their accommodation if they wish to go away. If they have not yet received their flight tickets they will also have to re-book and re-pay for those.
The company's website is advising travellers to keep all receipts and to try to claim a refund from their insurer or the Spanish travel agency regulator. Low Cost Travel Group moved to Spain in 2013.
Customers' holidays are not protected because Low Cost Travel Group is not a member of Atol, the Civil Aviation Authority scheme to protect package holiday customers. The company withdrew from the scheme in 2013, choosing instead to become a member of a travel regulator run by the government of the Balearic islands.
A spokesman for Atol said: "We advised UK consumers that their bookings wouldn't be protected under UK law when the Low Cost Travel Group moved to Spain in 2013. EU law is applicable to all operators but it doesn't offer the same level of protection as Atol does in the UK."
He added that customers who had booked with a credit card may be able to claim a refund through their provider.
Last year Low Cost Travel Group had a turnover of almost half a billion pounds, making it one of Europe's biggest online travel agents.
More than 450 staff face losing their jobs because of the collapse, including 120 based at Gatwick. The rest of the employees are based in Poland, Spain and Switzerland.
The company was founded in 2004 by Paul Evans, a leading figure in the travel business. The group's business model was to drive down operating costs to cut the price of holidays.
In 2013 the company also withdrew from Abta, the trade body representing British travel agents, in a row over membership fees. Mr Evans also outsourced much of the back office operations to Cracow in Poland to reduce labour costs. More information on what customers can do now is available at www.lowcosttravelgroup.com.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SPAIN (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               545 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK hopes for M&A brighten after Brexit decision; Financials: Mergers & acquisitions

BYLINE: Arash Massoudi, James Fontanella-Khan and Michael Pooler

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 754 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For a country reeling from a sharp fall in its currency and the prospect of exiting the EU, the sale of struggling UK retailer Poundland could not have been more apt.
The question for corporate dealmakers, struggling in one of the worst UK markets for mergers and acquisitions in years, is whether falling share prices and the devaluation of sterling against the US dollar will be enough to spark foreign interest again in British businesses.
A handful of takeovers agreed in the past week has provided some optimism. AMC Theatres, the US cinema chain owned by China's richest man Wang Jianlin, reached a £921m agreement to buy the UK-based Odeon & UCI Cinemas Group this week from private equity group Terra Firma.
"I do believe we might be the first company to announce a billion-dollar acquisition in Europe, taking advantage of the currency exchange rate. I don't think we are going to be the last," Adam Aron , chief executive of AMC, told CNBC in an interview.
South African retailer Steinhoff, meanwhile, swooped on Poundland, the discount retailer, in a £450m deal .
Moreover, cheap financing to fund such deals has remained abundant in spite of concerns about a UK economic slowdown. Scott Barshay, global head of M&A at US law firm Paul Weiss, predicts that Britain's vote to leave the EU will create deal opportunities.
"Long-term, Brexit is not a positive as uncertainty is typically the worst enemy for M&A, but in the short term there will be some opportunistic deals that get done," he says.
Interest in UK assets has remained strong from Chinese companies and other Asian corporates looking to expand their ownership of overseas assets at discount prices, advisers say.
The acquisition of Odeon by AMC was the largest but other deals are being struck for smaller companies. "We are seeing increased inquiries from Asia into the UK since the Brexit vote," says a top banker at a global investment bank.
Elsewhere, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds have been circling parts of the UK market on the hunt for distressed sales.
In particular, overseas funds have begun to log interest in commercial property, where heavy investor redem-ptions in open-ended retail funds is expected to spark fire sales from asset managers in the coming months.
The 13 per cent drop in the FTSE 250 index since the referendum in dollar terms has made such mid-cap companies more affordable, certainly compared with the large-cap FTSE 100 index, where multinational companies have fallen far less than the vote. That has made likely targets out of specialist UK manufacturers in areas such as chemicals and engineering, analysts say. "Post-Brexit a few people are looking at the UK [chemicals] companies because suddenly they are 10 per cent cheaper if sterling settles at this level. They are unique assets," says James Tetley at N+1 Singer, the stock broker.
Nonetheless, advisers are not expecting a sustained resurgence of UK M&A activity after bargain hunters have cleared. Deals in the UK market have so far halved from last year to $73.3bn - the lowest since 2011, Dealogic says.
"There haven't been any-Brexit related M&A deals yet and there probably won't be any," argues Piers Prichard Jones, partner at legal firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
He adds: "But strategic deals that make sense regardless of Brexit may be accelerated because the current market conditions present opportunities. A lot of UK companies, particularly those with significant non-sterling revenue, feel like they should be reviewing their takeover defence procedures now."
Alan Klein, a senior dealmaker at law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, says the drop in sterling will not automatically translate into a wave of inbound deals. "The situation is more nuanced," he adds. "Brexit will not impact companies that generate most of their revenues outside of the UK, so the devaluation of the pound certainly makes them more attractive to outside buyers."
While Chinese buyers are busy, others from the US and Japan who have been active in the UK market in recent years are expected to be deterred by the economic uncertainty.
Even dealmakers on the Poundland and the Odeon transactions, which were under way before the Brexit vote, said that the fallout affected the talks and could have jeopardised the deals.
An executive at a large US private equity firm said that the buyout sector, which tends to take advantage of distressed situations, was also wary of attempting any big takeover in the UK. "The risks are simply too big at the moment," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               546 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 16, 2016 Saturday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Wave goodbye to Europe, but say hello to opportunity; ? Serious money Experts are divided on the outlook for stock markets in the Eurozone post-Brexit. Mark Atherton sums up the arguments

BYLINE: Mark Atherton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 64,65

LENGTH: 1482 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Since the June referendum, all the talk is of how we are going to negotiate our withdrawal from the EU. Yet contrarian investors will be asking themselves whether Britain's departure from Europe might prove a good moment to start investing in it.
Times Money looks at the arguments for and against.
The case for Europe Although the Eurozone has in recent years become a byword for instability and uncertainty, it is performing surprisingly well. In the first quarter of this year economic growth in the Eurozone was better than in the UK or the US, and unemployment is falling across the region.
John Baker, the manager of the JP Morgan Europe Dynamic fund, says: "We've seen improving labour markets, solid real wage growth and stronger public spending."
Another positive, he says, is the determination of Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank (ECB), to continue pumping large amounts of liquidity into the region's economy, helping to stimulate growth as well as boosting the price of assets such as shares.
Stephen Mitchell, the head of global-equity strategy at Jupiter, the fund manager, says: "While GDP growth in European countries may be running at an average of about 1 per cent per annum, there are plenty of individual European companies that are delivering annual earnings growth of 6 to 7 per cent or more.
"Among them are Givaudan, a Swiss manufacturer of fragrances, and Essilor, a French maker of lenses for glasses, along with healthcare companies such as Denmark's Novo Nordisk and Novozymes."
Richard Pease, the manager of Crux European Special Situations fund, agrees that there are plenty of world-class companies based in Europe that are international in their operations.
He says: "They have been growing their dividends steadily despite all the ghastly things that have happened in Europe in the past ten years and I believe you are miles better off in the long term in quality stocks such as these than in bonds."
The UK's Brexit vote, while not welcomed by other members of the EU, may turn out to be the wake-up call that European policymakers need to drive through reform, according to Supriya Menon, a multi-asset strategist at Pictet Asset Management. "Valuations on European shares are cheap and are also attractive relative to bonds. Meanwhile, the earnings yield on European stocks is roughly twice the level of high-yield bonds," she says.
The case against Europe faces a large demographic problem in the shape of declining or static populations in some of its biggest countries, including Italy and Germany. This results in a shrinking labour force and a diminished consumer market, says Mr Mitchell.
He says European countries are having to get to grips with the implications of negative interest rates, with one third of the bond market in Europe yielding a minus figure.
"This is hurting European insurers, who struggle to obtain decent returns on their cash, and banks, whose margins have been squeezed to almost nothing."
Mr Pease thinks that Britain's split from the EU could trigger a wider break-up of the organisation, which would be damaging for Europe politically and economically, and would hit stock-market confidence.
John Bennett, the manager of Henderson European Selected Opportunities fund, says his biggest concern is that the Brexit vote may trigger a European recession.
"A cruel irony of Brexit is that in the UK, which has retained its currency, the strain can be partially relieved through a weaker pound boosting exports and the earnings of overseas companies when converted back into sterling," he says.
"No such handy relief valve exists for the individual members of the Eurozone."
Mr Bennett also thinks that the countries on the periphery of Europe, including Greece, Portugal and Italy, remain especially vulnerable to economic shocks, while the banking sector across the region is in no state to deal with a recession.
Ms Menon says that the weakness of the banking sector is hampering the Givaudan, a Swiss manufacturer of fragrances, is one of many European companies producing solid annual earnings growth efforts of the ECB to boost credit growth through quantitative easing.
How to play the market If you do take a chance on Europe, you could go for solid wealth-creating com-panies that have a "niche" and buy and hold them for the long term. This is what Mr Pease has done with a number of the stocks in his portfolio, including Brenntag, the German chemical distributor.
He says: "It sells to small businesses around the world - it seems to have a depot everywhere and offers a fast reliable service. It has a yield of 2.4 per cent, which continues to grow steadily."
Mr Baker highlights adidas, the German sports shoe and clothing manufacturer, as another example of a company that has a strong market presence.
"It is benefiting from brand momentum in the US and China. Adidas recently signed a collaboration agreement to promote sports in China, while football [soccer in the US] is one of the fastest-growing sports in American high schools."
On a slightly smaller scale he likes Brembo, the Italian brake manufacturer, which makes high-performance brake discs for cars and is the official supplier to the McLaren Mercedes Formula One team.
James Sym, the manager of the Schroder European Alpha Income fund, thinks the fall in out-of-favour European sectors since the Brexit vote offers a great buying opportunity.
He says some shares have fallen farther than is rational, especially in the insurance, banking and oil-andgas sectors.
"Axa, the French insurance company, is down about 25 per cent since the Brexit vote. It is now yielding 7 per cent and stands on a cheap valuation of seven times earnings. That looks like a terrific bargain," Mr Sym says. "In the same way, ING, the Dutch bank, is on a hugely attractive valuation, although it is a quality financial business."
"Eni, the Italian oil company, has suffered from the recent oil price falls and has cut its dividend, but the price drop has been excessive.
"It is driving down costs at an amazing rate and although it is making no money now, I expect it to be very profitable in a few years' time."
The UK's Brexit vote may be the wake-up call that EU policymakers need
The experts' picks Juliet Schooling Latter, of the fund research website FundCalibre, likes Jupiter European fund and GAM Star Continental Equity fund. She says: "Jupiter's Alexander Darwall looks for world-class companies that can sustain profit growth and margins over a long time irrespective of general market trends. He's developed a real aptitude for recognising patterns of success in company business plans and management teams, which is what you need right now with all the uncertainty. "Niall Gallagher, at GAM, aims to grow the wealth of his investors slowly and carefully. In some cases he studies a company for many months before actually investing, and he avoids too much exposure to specific themes. His investments are typically medium to large stocks and from all over the Continent. He has a very pragmatic approach, which has reaped good returns for investors." Gordon Smith, of Killik & Co, the stockbroker, says the European investment trust sector is trading at a bigger discount to its real, or net asset value (NAV), than at any time since 2012. His pick is Jupiter European Opportunities trust. "The trust has a consistent track record and is the best performer in the sector over one, three, five and ten years," he says. Ross Brookes, a senior analyst at Charles Stanley, the stockbroker, likes the European Investment trust, managed by Edinburgh Partners, the Henderson European Focus trust and the JPMORGAN European Smaller Companies trust. He says: "The European trust focuses on buying stocks it believes are undervalued based on its estimate of earnings over the next five years. The trust's value approach has been out of favour for some time and offers an attractive entry point for patient, long-term investors. It is trading on a 16 per cent discount to NAV. "The Henderson trust is less exposed to a particular investment style than some, but John Bennett's focus on out-of-favour stocks bouncing back gives rise to a more contrarian approach. The trust often adopts punchy sector bets, such as having 30 per cent of the portfolio in healthcare in 2015. This could lead to periods of relatively poor performance, of which investors should be aware. The trust is trading on a 14 per cent discount to NAV. "The JPMORGAN trust benefits from improving earnings estimates and rising markets. The managers take advantage of gearing [borrowing to buy more shares] to enhance returns and carefully monitor the level of the trust's gearing as market conditions change. "The trust is well managed and stands at a discount of 15 per cent to NAV, and investors benefit as and when this discount reduces. This is a trust for patient, long-term investors." Mark Atherton
Graphic
Top returns 7% The annual earnings growth being achieved by European companies


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); DENMARK (73%); GERMANY (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               547 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 17, 2016 Sunday 9:00 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Corrections and clarifications; Osirak airstrike | Post-Brexit picnic | Children's Media Conference

BYLINE: Corrections and clarifications column editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 202 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: · An article about Boris Johnson ( Liar, celebrity, joke: how other countries see Britain's new foreign secretary, 15 July, page 6) quoted a Telegraph column by him in which he referred to the Israelis' "magnificent success at Osirak in 1986, where they bombed Saddam's nuclear capacity in its desert cradle". That was an accurate quotation, but Johnson's column had the wrong year: the Israeli airstrike that destroyed the Osirak nuclear reactor, then under construction, actually took place in 1981.
· A photograph accompanying an article on the Opinion pages ( We can't be unfair. Brexit should be an amicable process, 13 July, page 28) was captioned as showing "A post-Brexit solidarity picnic organised by MoreInCommon". The picture was taken amid or alongside that picnic, but the people in the foreground of the photo, one of whom was carrying a placard saying "Uphold the Brexit vote", were participating in a counter-picnic arranged as part of a campaign calling on the government to respect the EU referendum result.
· The Children's Media Conference was held earlier this month in Sheffield, not in London as we said because of an editing error ( The rise and rise of YouTube for kids, 11 July, page 26).


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               548 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 17, 2016 Sunday 2:50 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Nicola Sturgeon says she would consider 2017 Scottish referendum; SNP leader says she is preparing for independence vote next year in case party is unhappy with approach to Brexit talks

BYLINE: Libby Brooks Scotland correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 355 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Nicola Sturgeon will consider holding a second referendum on Scottish independence in 2017 if the Westminster government begins moves to leave the EU without settling the UK-wide approach promised by Theresa May.
Asked on the BBC's Sunday Politics Scotland programme about her position should article 50 be triggered in December - as proposed by the newly appointed Brexit minister, David Davis - without the Scottish government being "on board", Sturgeon said that was why she was making preparations for a second independence referendum.
"Of course at that point that would be an option and a decision that I would have to consider," she said.
May has assured Scotland's first minister during her first official visit to Edinburgh last Friday that she would not trigger article 50 until "a UK-wide approach" had been agreed for negotiations to leave the EU.
When Sturgeon was then asked if she would be happy to have an independence referendum in the first half of next year, she said: "I will have an indyref if I come to the conclusion that is in the best interests of Scotland. I've always said that. It would be up to Scottish people ultimately to decide if that is right way to go."
She added that if a second independence referendum were to be held, it would make sense for it to happen before the UK left the EU. 
The SNP leader also revealed that, during their meeting, May had not indicated that she would seek to block such a referendum. 
However, speaking immediately after the meeting, the new prime minister appeared to rule out the possibility in principle, saying: "As far as I'm concerned, the Scottish people have had their vote, they voted in 2014 and a very clear message came through. Both the United Kingdom and the Scottish government said they would abide by that." 
Sturgeon added that, while May's assurances about her commitment to reaching a UK-wide approach on Brexit before triggering article 50 put the Scottish government in a strong position, "veto... is not a word I'm going to use".
Earlier on Sunday, Sturgeon corrected The Andrew Marr Show for implying that she had suggested Scotland now held a veto.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); SCOTLAND (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               549 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 17, 2016 Sunday 2:49 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: The fragile UK economy has a chance to abandon failed policies post-Brexit; A slowdown looks inevitable, but this is not a surprise: the economy wasn't working for many people before the EU referendum

BYLINE: Larry Elliott

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1061 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Almost four weeks have passed since Britain voted to leave the EU and those who wanted to remain in it are having trouble accepting the result. They feel bereft. They feel that they were defeated by underhand means. They feel that those who voted for Brexit were uneducated and didn't really understand what they were doing.
There is a nasty undercurrent of disdain, bordering on contempt, to all this angst. Many of those on the losing side of the referendum debate appear to actively want the economy to slide into recession in order to teach the 52% a lesson.
Let's be clear. The economy is fragile. It was slowing down even before the referendum date was fixed and it is ill-prepared for the shock of Brexit. The UK has a budget deficit of 4% of GDP, a balance of payments deficit  of 7% of GDP and the worst recent productivity record of any G7 country, bar Italy. The idea that George Osborne "fixed the roof while the sun was shining" is fatuous.
What's more, it is easy to sketch out the reasons why things are going to be difficult. Traditionally, investment is the swing factor in any economic cycle. When businesses are upbeat about the future, they spend more on new kit, boosting national output. When they are cautious, as they are certain to be now, they mothball spending plans and GDP weakens.
Consumer spending will also be hit by the squeeze on spending power caused by the higher inflation that will result from the impact of the falling pound on the cost of imports. The flipside is that exports become cheaper, which will help boost output, albeit not by all that much, unless global demand recovers from its current depressed level.
A slowdown, therefore, seems inevitable. The extent and duration of that slowdown will depend on the actions taken by the Bank of England and the Treasury, and how long it takes for the government to sketch out what a Brexit Britain is going to look like.
None of this is a surprise. The notion that the economy would struggle after a leave vote was strongly argued during the referendum campaign, but did not carry the day. Hence the view that those who voted for Brexit didn't understand what was at stake. 
Yet the evidence suggests that many of those who voted to leave knew that there would be a short-term hit to the economy, but decided that they were willing to take the risk. They weighed up the pros and cons - as did US investment banks, the CBI and universities - but came up with a different answer.
A speech given last week by Andy Haldane, the chief economist at the Bank, helps explain why so many people were unmoved by George Osborne's argument that the UK would be voting for a DIY recession if the country opted for Brexit. On a visit to Nottingham, Haldane said he was struck by the fact that for many people, the recession that followed the financial crisis of 2008 had never ended. When he talked about economic recovery, he was stopped in his tracks by a "forest of furrowed brows". The message was simple: there had been no recovery.
As Haldane went on to explain, this was not a case of false consciousness. The economic facts are plain: the economy is simply not delivering for millions of people.
Earnings are 7% above where they were when the recession ended in 2009, but still 5% below the peak once rising prices are taken into account. This is the longest period of flat or falling real wages since the mid 19th century.
UK national wealth, measured by the value of assets such as property and pensions, has increased by an impressive sounding £3tn since 2009, but the gains have been skewed towards those who owned their own homes or had sizeable pension pots. 
Only in two UK regions of the UK, London and the south-east, is GDP per head higher than it was before the recession. Everywhere else, it is lower - strikingly so in some parts of the country. 
The argument deployed by the remain side, that the only real risk to Britain's economic renaissance was a vote to leave the EU, worked in the more affluent parts of Britain, where the recovery was tangible, but fell on deaf ears elsewhere.
During the campaign, Osborne put out figures showing that households in the UK would be £4,300 a year worse off  on average by 2030 in the event of Brexit, because the economy would be six percentage points smaller. This had zero impact. In part, that might be because voters were rightly dubious about the Treasury's ability to make such long-term economic forecasts. But it seems that even those who did think that the economy might be a bit smaller by 2030 took the view that the additional six percentage points of GDP would accrue to rich people living inside the M25 and not to them. All the evidence suggests that this was a perfectly logical assumption.
In essence, the referendum divided Britain between those who were doing well out of the status quo and those who weren't. The latter group wanted change and appear to be willing to risk a recession to get it.
And change there has certainly been. Osborne has been fired, his ludicrous idea of a post-Brexit "punishment" budget  has been scrapped and the idea of balancing the budget by the end of the parliament rightly abandoned. The Treasury has been told to put growth before deficit reduction, a change of tack that is long overdue, and will have to work with a business department that has the crafting of an industrial strategy as part of its remit. A stimulus package will be announced by the Bank next month.
Brexit has also forced the rest of the EU to have a rethink, with a debate under way between those who think that the response should be a drive for closer integration and a more powerful group, which believes that the dream of political union is dead in the water. As in the UK, budgetary rules will be loosened, and not before time.
None of this should disguise the enormity of the challenges ahead. But Britain's economy is dysfunctional and needs to be fixed. The same applies to the eurozone, only even more so. Brexit provides an opportunity to try alternatives to failed policies. There is no guarantee that this opportunity will be seized. However, when the remainers talk of themselves as a persecuted minority and embrace the idea of recession with such relish, they should be aware of how they might sound to the people that Haldane spoke to in Nottingham: pampered, vindictive and unable to accept that they lost. 


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               550 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 17, 2016 Sunday 7:26 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK may impose cut-off date on EU migrants, says Brexit minister; David Davis says some people who arrive before UK leaves EU may not be given leave to stay indefinitely

BYLINE: Peter Walker Political correspondent

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 721 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The government could set a retrospective cut-off date for permitting overseas EU nationals to remain in the UK after the country leaves the union, the minister responsible for the negotiations, David Davis has warned.
Appointed last week to the new role of secretary of state for exiting the European Union, Davis said it might not be possible to warn in advance when this date might fall, as the "sheer generosity" of rights granted to EU nationals could prompt a surge in new arrivals.
"One way of dealing with it could be saying: 'OK, only people who arrived before a certain date get this protection,'" he told Sky News's Murnaghan show on Sunday. "There are other ways too."
Davis, a long-time Eurosceptic who had been off the Conservative frontbench since 2008 - when he stepped down as shadow home secretary in a protest over civil liberties - said being too specific in advance could cause difficulties. "If you set a date, that's when you start the rush," he said.
Theresa May was the only one of the Conservative leadership candidates to say she would not pre-emptively guarantee the rights even of foreign EU nationals already living in Britain before the referendum.
It brought complaints from opponents, notably the shadow home secretary, Andy Burnham, that she was using EU nationals in the UK as "bargaining chips". A Labour motion calling for rights to be guaranteed passed the Commons earlier this month, but is not binding.
Davis said on Sunday that any deals on people in the UK must be done at the same time as arrangements about the 1.2 million Britons living elsewhere in the EU, as it would stop "anybody being used as bargaining counters".
It was important not to make any early promises to people living in the UK, Davis said. "If we make a very generous settlement, as I'd like to do, then people are going to say: 'Oh but then that'll attract lots more people in because they want to beat the deadline.'
 Related:  A hard truth for Leave voters: Brexit means big government
"And so what I've said is, let's deal with that issue when we come to it. One way of dealing with it could be saying: 'OK, only people who arrived before a certain date get this protection' - there are other ways too. But we've got to do it within the law as it stands because at that point we'll still be within the European Union.
"Bear in mind this is only an issue if there is a surge in people arriving, and I don't think that is by any means certain."
Davis dismissed the idea that speaking even hypothetically about a cut-off date for residency rights could spark a movement of people to the UK. "No it won't be like that," he said. "If you set a date, that's when you start the rush."
There was no new Labour response to Davis's comments, but the SNP described them as shameful and indicative of a " nasty party cabinet" under May.
Davis accepted that a cabinet headed by May, who campaigned for the UK to remain in the UK, and including prominent Brexit supporters such as him, Boris Johnson and Liam Fox, meant there would be tensions over the exit strategy.
Davis suggested the UK could trigger article 50, which would begin the formal two-year process of leaving the EU, "early next year". May has indicated a longer process, saying she hopes to create more national consensus on a post-Brexit future first.
In another issue likely to dominate his new role, Davis said Scotland would not be able to unilaterally halt Brexit, and dismissed the proposal by Scotland's first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, that her nation could remain in the EU even as the rest of the UK leaves.
"I don't think that works," Davis said. "One of our really challenging issues to deal with will be the internal border we have with southern Ireland, and we are not going to go about creating other internal borders inside the United Kingdom."
He added: "The aim here is to try to address the concerns of people who are basically remain people, who say: 'Well, we are worried about inward investment, we are worried about trade with Europe, we are worried about all sorts of things.'
"And we will try as best we can - they can't have a veto because there are 17.5 million people who have given us a mandate, they have told us what to do, we can't disobey it - but what we can do is to try to do what we can to minimise any disruption or turbulence or problems."


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               551 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: A new age of alpha beckons beyond Brexit; THE LAST WORD

BYLINE: David Oakley

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 676 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Active managers are ready for the fightback. After years of losing business to cheaper passive rivals, the post-Brexit market may be the arena for active managers to excel.
Indeed, it may be the time for alpha - or the extra return an active manager gains over the wider market - to make a comeback.
Of course, fund management is a zero-sum game. For every winning active manager, there is a loser - but the uncertainty thrown up by the UK's vote to leave the EU offers possibilities for active investors.
For a start, some investors expect equities to take a hammering over the next six months, which would hurt passive investors that track the index. UBS is forecasting the FTSE 100 to fall 1,000 points by the end of the year.
Assuming these forecasts turn out to be accurate, this could enable active investors to pick out the winners, even though the market taken as a whole is on a losing streak. This is particularly relevant as some active managers think markets are under-estimating the negative impact of Brexit on equities. They add that stock selection has become more important as quantitative easing has been removed as a prop in the US and UK. Without the QE financial injection to lift all boats, passive funds could be exposed.
The weakness in sterling following the Brexit vote has already seen the big FTSE 100 groups with dollar earnings and overseas revenues outperform those companies that are more domestically focused and likely to suffer from a slowing UK economy.
Investors in the 40 per cent of UK-listed groups that pay dividends in dollars and euros will also enjoy a big dividend boost from the weakness of sterling over the next six months.
Additionally, British exporters are preparing for an upbeat earnings season on the back of a pound trading at historic lows against the dollar.
In contrast, the outlook for US groups looks less appetising with forecasts of a bleak earnings season as the strength of the dollar heralds the longest profits recession since the financial crisis.
For active income investors, there is also the boost from the growing equity risk premium, or extra yield pick-up, over government bonds. For some FTSE 100 groups, the yield pick-up from dividends is as much as eight percentage points over gilts.
For active multi-asset managers, their smorgasbord of assets gives them the option of switching out of equities or lowering their exposure to stocks. Some of these investors warn that the equity premium over bonds has widened because risks in stocks are higher than they have been for a long time.
These investors think the equity markets are underestimating the chance of more disruption from Brexit . The US S&P 500 traded at record highs last week, while the FTSE 100 was at highs for the year.
The concern is that the FTSE 100, which has risen 11 per cent since June 27, and other equity markets have not fully priced in the potentially damaging long-term impact of Brexit or a variety of other global risks.
As one multi-asset investor says: "An equity passive fund has limited options. An active multi-asset manager has much more flexibility. It may be time to recognise that there are a lot of risks out there and to play it safe in bonds."
He pinpoints drawn-out Brexit negotiations, the threat of a slowing Chinese economy , an Italian referendum that might spark instability in the EU, a Donald Trump US presidency and the risk of a US rate rise this year as potential negative surprises for equities.
"Active investors like volatility," he says. "There is a high chance of volatility over the next few months. Active investors also like issues they can take a strong position in and show their conviction."
Significantly, one of his firmly held beliefs is that the market is obsessed with Brexit and failing to spot other dangers, such as the risks of a Chinese slowdown.
The post-Brexit market cannot see beyond Brexit, he says. This failure is something active managers can use to beat the wider market in what he hopes will be a new age of alpha.
David Oakley is the FT's corporate affairs correspondent


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               552 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday 1:19 PM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Boris Johnson forced to share mansion with Liam Fox and David Davis; Joint use of the foreign secretary's official residence by Brexit ministers suggests his responsibilities have been stripped back

BYLINE: Rowena Mason and Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 356 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Boris Johnson will have to share Chevening, the grace-and-favour home traditionally used by the foreign secretary, with Liam Fox and David Davis - the two other cabinet ministers in charge of implementing Brexit. 
The decision suggests Johnson's role has been stripped back, with key responsibilities of his department handed over to Fox at international trade and Davis, who is in charge of exiting the European Union.
It is not the first time Chevening has been shared. Under the coalition, Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, had joint use of it with the foreign secretary, first William Hague and then Philip Hammond. 
A three-way homeshare is unusual but the house, near Sevenoaks in Kent, has 115 rooms, so it should be possible for them all to stay in the official residence at the same time. In London, Johnson will be able to live at Number 1 Carlton Gardens.
Explaining the decision to give Johnson, Davis and Fox joint use of the property, the prime minister's spokeswoman said this "reflects the fact that all of these secretaries of state will, as part of their work, be needing an opportunity to host foreign visitors and leaders".
The move also reflects the fact that there is some ambiguity as to whether Davis is more important and influential than Johnson in the Brexit negotiations. Asked about a claim by Davis in the Mail on Sunday that he could pull rank on Johnson and Fox, the prime minister's spokeswoman said that leaving the EU would be a "collective government effort".
She also said that the list of cabinet appointments published last week was not a guide to seniority and that the proper cabinet seniority rankings would not become clear until the official government list is published, probably later on Monday afternoon.
May has opted to use the flat in No 11 Downing Street formerly used by David Cameron and his family, which they renovated. She has use of the grace-and-favour mansion of Chequers in Buckinghamshire. 
This means Hammond is moving into No 10, where George Osborne and his family used to reside. Hammond has use of the official residence of the chancellor at Dorneywood in Buckinghamshire. 


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               553 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Asia Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit as yet has no defined meaning

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 74 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Chris Giles, in " Prime minister, tell us what 'Brexit means Brexit' means " (July 14), misses a point. The word Brexit is a nonce word: it has been coined to label a single-occurrence specific event and has no defined meaning, as yet, in any printed dictionary. Theresa May is entirely correct. She is channelling Lewis Carroll's Humpty Dumpty; the word "Brexit" means exactly what she wants it to mean.
Mike J Pugh
Woodford Green, Essex, UK


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               554 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit piles pressure on overstretched pensions; Fears rise over mounting deficits in private sector schemes after vote to leave EU adds £85bn to liabilities

BYLINE: Kate Burgess and Josephine Cumbo

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1104 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: When markets opened after Britain's vote to leave the EU, all eyes were on the billions of pounds wiped off the value of UK-listed companies. But a far longer-term problem - for those companies and their employees - was the £85bn added to pension scheme liabilities.
In a matter of hours, the vote for Brexit sent investors rushing to buy the safest government bonds, pushing prices up and yields down - and spelling more trouble for the pension industry.
Yet again, pension managers' hopes that interest rates and bond yields might return to historic norms - thereby alleviating the cost of pension promises - were dashed.
It was a huge setback to the UK's 6,000 private sector defined benefit pension schemes, many of which are already stretched to breaking point.
These schemes were set up decades ago and guaranteed inflation-linked annual incomes based on salaries to 11m workers. About 5,000 are now in deficit. And roughly 1,000 employers in Britain are close to insolvency, according to industry figures. This means their schemes will almost certainly end up in the Pension Protection Fund, the lifeboat created 12 years ago to safeguard pensioners' rights.
Government, actuaries, business leaders and pensions managers worry that demands on companies to top up schemes with big shortfalls will force employers to rein in investment and even push more companies out of business. That would harm the already precarious economy and quicken the demise of the weakest schemes.
There is already evidence of the impact of pension deficits on investment and dealmaking.
The £13bn British Steel Pension Scheme, which has an estimated deficit of £700m, has been one of the biggest roadblocks to the sale of Tata Steel's ailing British production plants.
Meanwhile, the collapse of the retailer BHS in April, leaving a £571m pension deficit, threw into sharp relief the political and societal backlash when companies walk away from their schemes.
The impact of the Brexit vote on yields has added to industry calls for united efforts from companies, unions and politicians to head off the looming crisis . Discussions are being held on whether companies should be given more leeway in calculating their shortfalls, which could ease the burden of pension contributions - and, more controversially, whether existing pensioners should shoulder cuts to their retirement incomes.
Even before the vote on June 23, corporate pensions were under strain. People are living longer; the ratio of pensioners to contributing members is rising and most schemes do not have enough in the kitty to meet obligations.
Industry estimates suggest that about 400 companies are in danger of being bankrupted by their pension liabilities.
"There is one direction of travel. The clock is ticking," says Graham McLean, a pensions adviser at Towers Willis Watson. Even if investment returns recover suddenly, many schemes have already begun depleting assets to pay pensions. "Schemes will have paid out so much in cash and assets that they can't climb out of the hole," says Mr McLean.
Strained pension schemes are not solely a UK phenomenon. Last year, the German airline group Lufthansa warned of an "urgent" need to overhaul the way it provided retirement benefits as the low interest rate environment caused its pension deficit to soar.
In the US, employers are increasingly looking to offload their pension scheme to insurers, through "buyouts", or are offering members lump sum payouts as an alternative to an income stream.
But Brexit has upped the stakes in the UK. Actuaries at Hymans Robertson say the shortfall between assets and liabilities in all UK schemes, if insurers were to take over the responsibility of paying pensions, rose from £820bn on the day of the EU referendum to £935bn four days later. Deficits had shrunk back to £925bn by the end of this week, according to Hyman's calculations of the cost of an insurer taking over responsibility for pension promises.
RBC Capital Markets, the analysts, has identified 10 companies that are particularly exposed to further falls in bond yields, as their market capitalisation is dwarfed by their pension liabilities. These include Post NL, the Dutch postal operator; International Airlines Group, which owns British Airways; and Royal Bank of Scotland. The pension liabilities as a percentage of market capitalisation for these companies are 550 per cent, 297 per cent and 201 per cent respectively.
Last month, trustees of BT's Pension Scheme - the UK's largest defined benefit scheme - said its shortfall between assets and liabilities was up £3bn in a year to nearly £10bn, despite the company contributing not far off £3bn over the past three years.
There is now disagreement in the industry over who - scheme members or shareholders - will ultimately bear the cost of cutting benefits.
"The underlying question is how do we deal with the fact that these promises which were made are proving extremely costly and in some cases unaffordable, and in some cases will never be met," says Alan Rubenstein, chief executive of the PPF.
"We need to have a sensible conversation about how we deal with that and essentially how we share out the pain."
The Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association, the pension industry's trade body, has begun talking to regulators, employers and politicians. It points out that using bond yields to value pension liabilities creates short-term gyrations that have nothing to do with the cash payments to retired staff.
Lady Barbara Judge , the PPF's outgoing chairman, who is calling for regulators to be given the power to block transactions that put pension scheme members at risk, says: "We [must] decide as a society to protect pensioners."
The Pensions Regulator said in May that the dividends paid out by half of the UK's biggest companies was multiples of contributions to their pension schemes and suggested they could do more.
However, Brexit, and the sharp rise in shortfalls, has shifted the debate.
Ros Altmann, the pensions minister, said this month that she was considering ways for UK company pension schemes to recalculate the cost of future promises to members in an attempt to ease the pressure of gyrating deficits.
There is increasing concern about the cost to companies, and some believe the axe should fall on employees' benefits. Eamonn Butler, a director of the rightwing think-tank Adam Smith Institute, says: "Employees have been overpromised. Insisting on a gold standard is not sustainable."
It is clear that, with deficits rising at such a pace, few will be unscathed. Even if gyrations in financial markets settle, this is a battle that will run and run.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               555 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote prompts flood of cash into money market funds; INVESTMENT STRATEGY

BYLINE: Aliya Ram

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Investors are pouring cash into low-risk money market funds as they postpone allocation decisions amid market volatility and weaker business confidence.
Sterling-denominated mon-ey market funds have seen more than $30bn of inflows since October last year, with a spike of new money in the aftermath of the UK's vote to leave the EU, according to EPFR Global, the research house.
Offshore money market funds denominated in US dollars, meanwhile, have attracted $24bn since the Brexit vote, data from provider iMoneyNet show.
By contrast, equity funds have seen billions pulled from their coffers - adding strain on asset managers already contending with falling profits.
"We're seeing inflows from larger corporate institutions that might want to leave cash with us," said Craig Inches, fixed income fund manager at Royal London Asset Management, which oversees £88bn.
"We're [also] seeing investors who want to reduce the duration of the bonds that they have but keep returns."
A so-called "flight to safety" after Britain's vote to leave the EU and the prospect of lower interest rates and quantitative easing from central banks have compressed sovereign bond yields, which move inversely to price. Meanwhile, stock markets have shed trillions of dollars since the start of the year over concerns about global growth and the strength of the eurozone.
Money market funds - which are cash-like investment vehicles with higher returns - typically purchase highly-rated government bonds and securities, so have also seen yields compressed by low interest rates. But they have proved popular for parking cash as investment decisions are postponed due to uncertainty.
Mr Inches said that banks such as HSBC and Lloyds and other large institutional investors have shifted cash into the vehicles while they wait for fixed income yields to rise and interest rates "to reflect economic fundamentals".
Royal London's largest money market fund has doubled in size to £2bn in the last year, he said, and it has launched another short term cash fund this year in response to demand.
Steven Bell, fixed income fund manager at BMO Global Asset Management, the Canadian investment house, said that its asset management business is increasingly re-routing cash to money market funds while the outlook for global growth remains unstable.
"I don't imagine that investors will sit on cash for ever but I do think that the shift between banks and money market funds is permanent," he said.
With interest rates on savings accounts at record lows since the financial crisis, holders of larger sums of cash - often institutional investors and banks - have moved into the money markets.
According to Mr Bell, these investors have been prompted to hold even more cash this year, because of concerns about redemptions since the Brexit vote. Around £15bn of assets were trapped in commercial property funds last week when asset managers were forced to suspend trading because they could not afford to pay back investors who wanted to redeem their money.
Moody's, the rating agency, predicts that more assets will flow into money market funds "as uncertainty prevails".


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               556 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Business confidence lower than after collapse of Lehman; Brexit vote fallout

BYLINE: Gemma Tetlow, Economics Correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 525 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Revenue expectations, investment and hiring plans have all fallen sharply since the UK voted to leave the EU, and chief financial officers are more pessimistic than they were after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008.
A survey of 132 CFOs of FTSE 350 and other large UK companies, carried out by Deloitte since the Brexit vote, found 73 per cent were "less optimistic" about their companies' financial prospects than they were three months ago. Negative sentiment among finance chiefs is now at its highest level since the consultancy started such surveys in 2007.
Nearly two-thirds of CEOs said they expected revenues to fall in the coming year, up from 11 per cent in the first three months of 2016. Some companies have issued profit warnings . "There has been a marked shift to more defensive balance sheet strategies in the wake of the referendum, with a focus on reducing costs, building up cash flows and caution on all forms of spending," said Ian Stewart, chief economist at Deloitte.
In line with their desire to reduce costs, 82 per cent of finance chiefs said their companies would reduce capital spending in the next year, compared with 34 per cent at the start of the year. Meanwhile, 83 per cent said hiring would slow down, compared with 29 per cent in the first quarter of 2016.
Pessimism among finance chiefs extends beyond the immediate post-referendum uncertainty. More than two-thirds of CFOs think leaving the EU will worsen the UK's long-term business environment; only 13 per cent think prospects will improve.
To help to support the economy, virtually all CFOs said it was important for the government to provide a strong signal about its aims for negotiations with the EU. Very few said tax cuts or additional public spending were a priority.
"The faster-than-expected appointment of the new prime minister removes one source of uncertainty," said David Sproul, chief executive of Deloitte. Mr Stewart added that there is now "a real task for the government to convince businesses that the UK remains a good place to do business".
The Bank of England's top priority, said finance chiefs, was to maintain banks' solvency and liquidity. The BoE has been doing this and has cut requirements for banks to hoard spare cash to deal with losses from bad lending. This has enabled banks to lend up to £150bn more than they could previously.
The Deloitte survey suggests many large companies will be unconcerned by the Monetary Policy Committee's decision last week not to cut the base rate. Although this announcement took financial markets by surprise , only 3 per cent of CFOs said they favoured a cut in interest rates and just 6 per cent called for further quantitative easing.
"The Brexit vote is a major political shock but not, in the first instance, an economic or financial shock on the scale of the Lehman collapse," said Mr Stewart. "Yet in the wake of the Brexit vote, business confidence has fallen even more than it did following the failure of Lehman.
"My guess is that with a new prime minister in place, and a gathering government response to Brexit, we will see business sentiment edge higher towards the end of the year."


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               557 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: DUP support is not essential in post-Brexit dialogue - Martin

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 568 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Niall O'Connor Political Correspondent FIANNA Fáil leader Micheál Martin has said the DUP's backing is not essential for the establishment of a 'post-Brexit' national dialogue.
Mr Martin has said in light of the decision by Britain to leave the EU, the Oireachtas should convene a "national dialogue" or "civil dialogue" involving workers, business organisations, non-governmental organisations and community groupings.
He said the body would be different from the so-called 'all-island' forum, which was shot down by the North's First Minister Arlene Foster.
"That was a mistake, that was wrong," he said.
Significantly, Mr Martin said the body could go ahead without the support of the DUP and should go right around the island of Ireland. He made the claims to reporters as he arrived at the MacGill Summer School in Glenties, Co Donegal.
Delivering the John Hume lecture, Mr Martin described the allocation of speaking rights in the Dáil as "absurd", arguing that it unduly favoured "ad hoc groupings of a few deputies".
He said: "The situation at the moment is still unsettled," while insisting that the minority Government could still work. Mr Martin was also critical of the slow pace at which legislation is being passed.
During the week, Labour Party leader Brendan Howlin said that no legislation had been passed in six months.
Mr Martin expressed concern that the largest parties in the Dáil did not have proportionate speaking time.
He explained: "As part of this, there is no doubt that the amount of time for government legislation needs to be increased we are to properly review the more important measures that will start to appear on the order paper from October onwards.
"In addition, the principle that all deputies should have opportunity to contribute the work of the Dáil has not been achieved.
"In large part, this is because have the absurd situation where the greater the mandate your party holds, the less opportunity you have to speak." The Fianna Fáil leader also used his speech to address the concerns stemming from the attack in Nice and Brexit.
The French ambassador, Jean-Pierre Thébault, had pulled out of the event following the Nice massacre. Mr Martin told the audience: "We are in what can best be termed a new age of uncertainty. There is no question where people of our country stand - we stand in solidarity with France and we stand in solidarity with the great principles of liberty, equality and fraternity which July 14 celebrates.
"This is a tense time...There is natural urge to find refuge in broad definitions of the enemy.
must take robust action - we cannot fail to adopt reasonable measures to fight new threats. But equally, we must never forget what we are defending."
On Brexit, Mr Martin said barriers on the Border could set the country back decades.
"The Brexit vote has added a new risk. It threatens to set back a model of shared development, which, in spite of many problems, has achieved a lot and could achieve much more. The introduction of new barriers between both parts of this island would potentially set us back decades," he said.
Mr Martin hit out at the media for predicting Fianna Fáil's demise. "This year's general election demonstrated a profound detachment between elite and public discourse in this country. The most dramatic proof of this was the shock of so many at the massive losses by the government parties and the fact that Fianna Fáil gained..."


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: IRELAND (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               558 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: EU referendum fallout fears hit L&G hard; Insurance: Brexit aftermath

BYLINE: Oliver Ralph, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: COMPANIES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 937 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: In an industry that has been appalled at the prospect of a British exit from the EU, Legal & General boss Nigel Wilson stands out.
The chief executive of the life insurer was privately pleased with the referendum result even as others in the industry worried about the impact on their businesses. The day afterwards, he told the Financial Times the UK remained "a great place to invest".
If only investors were as bullish about his own company. Legal & General has been one of the hardest hit in the sector since the result was announced, with shares down almost a fifth since June 24, further than rivals such as Prudential, Aviva and Standard Life.
This has also been reflected by in a souring of sentiment among analysts covering the company. Before the vote, more than half of them had recommendations to buy Legal & General, according to Bloomberg, but this has since dropped to just a third.
The reason is simple. More than any of its more diversified major peers, Legal & General is reliant on the broader health of the UK market.
"Legal & General is the most exposed to the UK as it is primarily a domestic insurer," says Alan Devlin, an analyst at Barclays who downgraded the shares just after the referendum.
While Prudential has big businesses in the US and Asia, and Aviva has built operations in Canada and Europe, Legal & General is mostly in the UK, albeit with a growing US business. The biggest fear is the impact that a UK recession would have on L&G's balance sheet.
James Shuck, analyst at UBS, says: "They have a very leveraged business model with a lot of corporate credit. The market is reassessing the amount of risk in this company."
He points out that the amount of corporate credit in the portfolio is six times the group's tangible net assets - well above the average for European insurers. L&G also has a large portfolio of property at a point when many analysts are predicting a fall in values after the Brexit vote. A UK recession could further hit property values and the creditworthiness of UK companies.
Not everyone is nervous about the exposure to corporate credit though. Barrie Cornes, analyst at Panmure Gordon says: "I don't think it's an issue. They have a huge amount of reserves set aside in the back pocket."
Following the referendum result, the company pointed out that it had already taken £2.3bn of provisions against corporate defaults.
Alastair Gunn, a fund manager at Jupiter Asset Management, is also more sanguine. "I think they are in a good place from a capital perspective, and I'd be surprised if we turned out to have a 2008-style recession," he says.
He adds that the big attraction for him is the dividend. "There is an 8.5 per cent yield which is covered by income from the back book [of policies] and from investment management, so the dividend is sustainable going forward. If I could get 8.5 per cent from every stock in my portfolio, I'd be a happy man."
The balance sheet is not the only source of concern, however. The group sells a wide range of products, from investments to annuities. A Brexitinduced recession could damage the prospects for many of these. Earlier this month, for example, Jefferies cut its estimate for growth in its protection business - which is often linked to house purchases - from 3 per cent to 1 per cent.
But the biggest worry is annuities, specifically bulk purchase annuities (or pension buyouts) in which insurers take large pension liabilities off the hands of UK companies.
Insurers will take these schemes on only if they are fully funded, and low market interest rates have the effect of increasing deficits, making buyouts harder to do. According to the Pension Protection Fund, the aggregate deficit in UK corporate pension schemes rose from £295bn at the end of May to £384bn at the end of June.
Legal & General has positioned itself as a leader in bulk purchase annuities, so any slowdown would hurt. One fund manager says he sold his entire holding in the company on June 24 because of the prospects for bulk annuities.
However the market is not finished yet. Mr Cornes points out that, because of their size, bulk annuities tend to be lumpy and difficult to forecast. And over the long term, the scale of pension liabilities on UK corporate balance sheets will provide plenty of opportunities for buyouts.
Legal & General declined to comment for this article, but in a statement published after the referendum it said that the areas where it sees long-term growth - including ageing populations, welfare reform and the creation of new real assets - were "substantially unaffected" by the result.
And L&G has some big backers. In a note to investors last week, Woodford Investment Management said the company was "well-placed to deliver very attractive rates of sustainable dividend growth", adding that it had been buying more L&G shares to "take advantage of the ill-informed investor behaviour".
Close ties to the government could also help the company as the UK negotiates its exit. Last month it recruited Sir John Kingman , a senior Treasury official, as its new chairman. And Theresa May last week appointed John Godfrey, Legal & General's corporate affairs director, as her director of policy.
The company's shares have slightly recovered since their 30 per cent fall in the two trading days after the result. And taking a five-year view, the shares have substantially outpaced the FTSE 100. However, they remain sharply down since the morning of the result. For the moment at least, the bears are in charge and L&G will need to prove its business model again in the new trading conditions of Brexit Britain.
Wolfgang Münchau page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               559 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Fears Brexit will slow Capital Markets Union; CAPITAL MARKETS

BYLINE: Attracta Mooney

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 494 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK's vote to leave the EU has sparked fears that asset managers will lose their voice during negotiations to redraw Europe's capital markets.
Jonathan Hill , the former European commissioner who was the driving force behind the project known as the Capital Markets Union, stepped down from his role after the UK voted in favour of Brexit.
His replacement, Valdis Dombrovskis, a Latvian politician, has vowed to continue Mr Hill's work on the CMU, which is aimed at reducing Europe's reliance on bank funding and removing obstacles for investors in Europe's capital markets.
However, there are concerns that with Mr Hill's departure, the project could be delayed or altered, leaving asset managers sitting on the sidelines.
James Hughes, Brussels deputy head at Cicero, the lobbying group, said: "The CMU isn't going to die because Jonathan Hill is stepping down. There will be a lot of initiatives that will go through. But the political momentum might die down."
Sean Tuffy, head of regulatory intelligence at Brown Brothers Harriman, the US bank, said that with the UK sidelined on the CMU, countries with large fund industry operations, including Ireland and Luxembourg, have lost an important ally.
"This could lead to less fund industry-friendly rules. It's important the fund industry continues to be engaged in the CMU dialogue," he said.
Asset managers had hoped the CMU would allow them to play a bigger role in financing the European economy.
European companies traditionally receive about 80 per cent of their external funding from bank loans, but in the US, the majority get their financing from securities markets.
With banks retreating from lending to small companies in particular, opening up financing to non-banks, such as asset managers, was seen as a key way to drive growth in Europe. Mr Hughes said the UK pushed this approach and was seen as the main beneficiary of CMU because it has Europe's most developed capital markets.
In contrast, in countries such as Germany and France, banks have not stepped back from lending to the same extent, leaving many in these nations questioning the need for deeper capital markets.
"The stock position from some member states and MEPs is, yes, it is important to strengthen the capital markets but the banking system is also important and it is important to make sure it is supported as well," said Mr Hughes.
Frank Dornseifer, managing director of BVAI, the German body for alternative fund managers, added: "If you talk to people in Germany, they ask: 'Why do you need stronger market-based financing? There are banks to do that.'
"The approach and momentum [behind the CMU] was to a large extent coming from the UK. If this is stopped, who will bring the momentum?"
Raoul Ruparel, co-director of Open Europe, a think-thank, said new plans for the CMU are likely to shift away from breaking down practical barriers that prevent capital markets from functioning efficiently to deepening eurozone financial integration.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BELGIUM (79%); LATVIA (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               560 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday 11:59 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Frankfurt tries to tempt the bankers fleeing a post-Brexit Britain; City highlights its low rents, good transport links and international population for firms considering a move from London

BYLINE: Kate Connolly in Frankfurt am Main

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1673 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Dishing out servings of her award-winning gelbe wurst (yellow pork and veal sausages) to customers in Frankfurt's covered market as she has been doing for the past 58 years, Ilse Schreiber said the British electorate's decision to leave the EU had made her sure of one thing. "We need to stick together, more than ever - we can't let Europe fall apart." 
The 76-year-old said she was convinced that just as her adopted city had taken her and thousands of others in as refugees from what is now western Poland in 1946, it would now be able to absorb the 10,000 to 20,000 financial sector workers it is estimated could move from London in the event of a Brexit. "They can come and try out my sausages," she said, pointing to the many Frankfurt financiers who queue at her stall every lunchtime.
Major financial institutions in London are considering relocating thousands of their employees if UK-based firms lose access to the bloc. Frankfurt - already home to the European Central Bank, the EU's insurance regulator, as well as almost 200 foreign banks - is likely to be a major beneficiary of the post-Brexit fallout in the financial sector.
Spearheading the campaign to persuade executives that Germany's financial capital - the most important in continental Europe - should become the new London, is the city's social democrat mayor, Peter Feldmann, who said Frankfurt was both "weeping and laughing" at the Brexit decision.
 "We're sorry things have turned out like they have," he told the Guardian. "But now this sovereign decision, which everyone now believes is irreversible, has been made we say we're ready and waiting to provide the bankers with a new home."
From his office in the Römer, the medieval city hall, Feldmann highlights the benefits of Frankfurt, including zero unemployment, 1.3m square metres of empty office space, record tax revenues - much of which is being pumped into the education system - and the highest per capita cultural budget of any German city.
He is also proud of the city's outward-looking nature - it is home to 180 nationalities and a third of its inhabitants are foreign nationals - which has much to do with its reputation as a trade fair location which goes back as far as the 12th century, and a banking tradition which is at least 600 years old. 
"From the cradle onwards we're taught to be open to the world, to employ foreigners, as their families will become your customers, which is why we cannot understand how Britain has decided to isolate itself but we're going to make the best of it."
Frankfurt, he said, still takes pride in having given refuge to hundreds of English Protestants who fled religious persecution under Mary I in the 1550s. And while he wouldn't compare the bankers to desperate refugees, "we'll certainly also make them feel equally welcome here". 
How many jobs might come Frankfurt's way is dependent on how many banks decide to move, what percentage of their personnel they relocate, and whether the European Banking Authority (EBA) and the joint headquarters of the London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Börse - if their proposed fusion even happens - end up being in Frankfurt, or other contending cities. 
The regional marketing agency, FrankfurtRheinMain GmbH, is hoping to help capture as many of them as possible.
"We built a website welcometofrm.com in case of a Brexit and were so not expecting, or to be honest, wanting it to be needed," its chief executive, Eric Menges, said. "But you know, we're Germans and very organised so it went live the night the results came in."
A promotional video shows off the region's assets, and includes couples wandering through vineyards in misty sunlight and, amid the gleaming glass and chrome towers of the banking district, a man reading a book in a hammock on the banks of the Main river. 
The agency has also set up a 24-hour telephone hotline manned by native English speakers and the phone has hardly stopped ringing, Menges said.
The inquiries so far from businesses large and small - as well as management consultants, estate agents and legal firms - have spanned everything from rent prices and the availability of luxury flats to international schools and the tax system.
"I show them what a high standard of living they can enjoy here, that you can live, like I do,15 minutes' drive from the city centre, close to vineyards and keep chickens in the backyard, or else in the city centre, but for a half or third of the price you might pay in London. And you can cycle everywhere. We have a world-class opera house, theatres, art galleries and restaurants, and everyone speaks English," he said.
The Frankfurt native, whose accent is tinged with the "zish" of the regional Hesse dialect, treats visitors to Frankfurt's local delicacies - albeit rather acquired tastes - such as green sauce and marinated handcheese (a fist-sized pungent sour cheese in vinegar) with onions. On the menu too is the sweet and sour apple wines the city dwellers like so much, the headquarters of the EU's insurance regulator EIOPA has even been modelled on the crenellated glass out of which it is typically drunk.
But the potential influx is nevertheless a worry for many ordinary Frankfurters, concerned that the sudden rush of highly paid executives will cause a housing market, where prices have already been rising beyond many people's means, to inflate still further. 
At the box office of the English Theatre, Tunc Yomolcay, 36, who is Frankfurt born and bred, is selling tickets for upcoming productions, from Monty Python's Spamalot to The Hound of the Baskervilles. "Personally, though Brexit was a real blow, I'd welcome any Brexit exiles as apart from anything it would be good for the theatre," he said. "But my main concern is that if thousands of bankers relocate from London it will push up the rents, and I'm already paying shedloads for my 20 square metre flat as it is."
Any fears that the city's rather cosy, almost village-like identity compared to London, might change in the wake of divisions of bankers and insurance brokers arriving from the UK, are unfounded, said Berthold Kohler, one of the publishers of the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.
"It's a live and let live sort of place, and that will not alter. The ordinary Frankfurters are self confident enough to tolerate the bankers and not let themselves be intimidated by them or their wealth and the banking scene certainly does not dictate the terms of life in the city. Rather people are used to living off and with the trade," he said.
That live and let live attitude, said Menges, is a side of Frankfurt rather unknown to outsiders. It is exemplified in the figure of "Naked George" - Frankfurt's resident nudist who is something of a local celebrity. "He's just accepted by everyone, he never gets arrested. I sometimes see him at the dentist."
In Frankfurt's railway quarter - a bustling district on the edge of the banking quarter where Moroccan grocers and Turkish hairdressers sit beside Japanese patisseries and kebab houses - bankers Jaczek, Jörg and Don were enjoying an after-work meal in Fletcher's Better Burger.
The three - all of whom declined to give their full names or identify their employers - agreed that Frankfurt was not quite as classy as London or as cool as Berlin. 
But, said Jaczek, "it's got a lot going for it, quite a few cool pubs and bars, and I think if it embraces the opportunities from Brexit, that will probably inject even more energy into it." 
Jörg, who has previously lived in Berlin and New York, said it was the obvious place for the banking industry to relocate to, "if only because it's so international and has such fantastic transport links. You can get to Paris by train in around three and a half hours."
Volker Bouffier, the premier of the state of Hesse, has admitted that the region needs to tread carefully "lest it appear we're vultures, picking at the dead". But as Brexit has been decided on, "we're not going to hang around for two years to see where the negotiations go, we want to help businesses with their reorientation plans now," he said.
A recent survey of 360 London bankers by the Boston Consulting Group put Frankfurt in a prime position, ahead of rivals such as Paris, Amsterdam, Dublin or Luxembourg. Its advantages were seen as its central location, sophisticated infrastructure and property prices considerably lower than those in London or Paris. 
"It's likely all these cities will benefit in some way from the Brexit fallout," said Martin Hellmich, a professor of risk management, talking at the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management conference - Brexit or Brexit Lite, What Happens Next? "But proximity to other banks, especially to the ECB, as well as manageable rental costs at a time when banks are having to look closer at their bottom lines, certainly makes Frankfurt very appealing."
The perceived obstacles are the high German taxes and strict labour laws, which are off-putting for some, as well as Frankfurt's reputation, albeit one it's trying hard to shake, for being a little dull.
But that has not stopped two major banks from reportedly buying up office space, citing Brexit as the main motivator, according to local estate agents.
"One management consultant told me they've been commissioned to work on so many company plans to exit London, they can hardly keep track of them," said Christoph Schalast, professor for mergers and acquisitions at the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. "It seems they're effectively working on the Plan B that the British government failed to have - that's what most people still can't get their heads around here."
Yet there might yet be a note of caution in the city's records of the Protestant exiles which show that native Frankfurters did not trust the 16th century English immigrants, suspecting them of trying to undermine the privileges of existing citizens and of unfair business practices. 
"Clearly we need to ensure that people already here aren't disadvantaged by any influx and then we can make this work," said Feldmann, the mayor.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (87%); GERMANY (87%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               561 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: How to make Brexit manageable

BYLINE: Wolfgang Münchau in Europe

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 662 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: We have moved beyond " Brexit means Brexit ". We know the new UK government is seeking a relationship with the EU, governed by a trade agreement. It does not want to join the European Economic Area - an extended sphere of the EU's internal market.
Philip Hammond, chancellor of the exchequer , has talked about access to the single market but not membership. After meeting with Jack Lew, the US Treasury secretary in Berlin last week, Wolfgang Schäuble , the German finance minister, called this proposition reasonable. There is no agreement on anything yet, but the UK and the EU may at least agree what to talk about. Coming from where we did, this is progress.
Beyond the broad direction, we can make three further points. The master plan drafted by David Davis , secretary of state for exiting the EU, was as clear on the general direction as it was naive about the technical details. The campaign is over - Mr Davis will have to get excited about really boring things.
What is also becoming clear is that Theresa May , the UK prime minister, might have to trigger the exit procedure under Article 50 before the end of the year. It will take time to get an agreed negotiating position that both Scotland and England's Brexiters are happy with. Compromises will have to be made. But the process cannot be delayed for too long. The economy might leave her no choice. Brexiters should not be fooled by the relatively benign market reaction after the referendum and the limited fall in the pound's value.
The third point that has become clear is that Brexit will happen before the UK's general election in 2020. It is the only scenario under which the Conservative party will hold together.
In the months ahead the main job of the Brexit team will be to understand in detail the negotiating positions of the other 27 member states. What does each of them think about Britain's access to the EU's financial market?
We know France favours curbs but is this universal? Such an exercise would also reveal that the principle of free movement of people cannot be easily negotiated away. Free movement is not a policy, nor mindset, but a principle deeply enshrined in European law.
They should also think about the transition. There is no chance a trade deal can be agreed and implemented within two years. The deals are technically complicated because they have to be negotiated chapter by chapter, industry by industry. Complex trade-offs will be needed. Ratification may be delayed. Fortunately, Britain runs a large trade deficit with the rest of the EU so several countries will want to complete a deal quickly, Germany among them. This also means the process might come unstuck if others cannot agree.
Meanwhile, an important development is about to unfold that could prove a great opportunity for Britain: Germany's Social Democrats, partners in Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition government, are about to ditch support for the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership - an agreement between the EU and the US. My understanding is that it is now in effect dead.
A German veto of TTIP would give the UK and the US a chance to negotiate their own bilateral version.
In this case, the UK could theoretically end up with a better position than before: with access to the EU single market and deeper economic integration with the US.
The EU is in grave danger. For geo-political reasons I would have preferred it if the UK had voted to stay. The failed coup in Turkey and the latest terror attack in France could destabilise the EU further. But starting from where we are today, there is a chance Brexit can be managed in a way that is at least economically neutral.
Such an outcome is not guaranteed. For that to happen, Mrs May will need to proceed with the same ruthlessness and sense of purpose as she did last week when she ended the austerian economic strategy of David Cameron, her predecessor, and wielded the knife against long-serving ministers.
munchau@eurointelligence.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DE Germany; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               562 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ignoring Brexit doomsters was wise move

BYLINE: Gerard Griffin

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 657 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Was Brexit an act of epic self-harm? Politicians and commentators around the world, their expert warnings about the dire economic consequences having been ignored, seem to think so.
In Britain, there have been calls for a rerun of the referendum, or for parliament to ignore the result. In the United States, many fear that the same self-destructive anger could carry Donald Trump to the White House.
Yet already, less than a month after the vote, there is reason to doubt the irrationality of the decision for Brexit. Indeed, there is some evidence to suggest that the vote was sensible, proof, if any was needed, that democracy (still) works.
A key plank in the economic argument for remaining within the European Union was a belief that the uncertainty after a vote to leave would cause such havoc in the financial markets as to have a lasting impact on the British economy. In a report published in May, the Treasury predicted that the pound would plunge, interest costs would soar and equity markets crash. By the government's reckoning, the shortterm discombobulation after a shock result would, on its own, cut 1 per cent off GDP in perpetuity, accounting for more than a quarter of Brexit's estimated long-term hit to the economy.
We can begin now to assess the accuracy of the experts and their forecasting, at least with respect to this particular prediction. To be clear, this is not intended to relitigate a tired political dispute over whether the government was deliberately misleading voters under "Project Fear." Both the Leave and Remain sides were guilty of making distorted, if not wilfully inaccurate, claims and, in any event, the time for political point-scoring has passed. Instead, comparing what has happened in the market with what officials predicted should prompt a rethink among those bemoaning the pitfalls of democracy: might it turn out that voters were right to ignore the experts? Three weeks on from the vote, to judge by the markets, it seems that way. Sterling has depreciated, but by half as much as feared. Other market indicators have hardly budged or improved. Government borrowing costs have not risen but fallen, keeping a lid on the household and corporate borrowing costs, which economists expected would rise. The FTSE 100 closed on Friday in bull market territory, 12 per cent higher than a month ago. The FTSE 250, unflattered by foreign currency earnings and so arguably a better reflection of domestic business prospects, finished last week 2.5 per cent higher than a month ago.
Markets predict only future corporate earnings, not the overall health of the economy. And it is still possible that some or all of the pessimistic market forecasts may be borne out in time. The future shape of relations between the UK and the EU remains unknown and the past few weeks have reminded us that markets aren't always right.
That said, the Brexit decision has been made. A new government, free of its predecessor's inflexible commitment to austerity, is being established under a prime minister broadly considered sensible. It seems likely that the moment of peak uncertainty has passed. It is time to accept that predictions of a Lehmanstyle financial crisis were wrong. In acknowledging that expert opinion was rightfully ignored by voters, at least with respect to the risk of market collapse, we can reassure ourselves about the merit of democracy. Undoubtedly, many Leave voters were driven by non-economic concerns and few expected the market rally we have experienced. But we shouldn't ignore the fact that the outlook for UK plc, at least to judge by present market indicators, has improved since before the referendum, when the Remain camp was expected to prevail.
Far from being a victory for knownothings, the vote to leave appears to have evidenced something different: the ability of the British electorate to make a rational choice.
Gerard Griffin is managing partner, Chilmark Capital Management


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               563 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Industry bodies prepare to lobby on Brexit rights; INVESTMENT STRATEGY

BYLINE: Aliya Ram

SECTION: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 519 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Hedge funds are building a "Brexit task force" to lobby politicians and inform the industry on the implications of the UK's vote to leave the EU and prepare their businesses for the years ahead.
The Alternative Investment Management Association, which represents the interests of hedge funds , told its members at a special meeting held this month that it will coordinate the industry's efforts to push for consistent regulation and visa rights for EU employees. It also said executives should future-proof their businesses by setting up management companies and registering funds on the continent.
"Members have concerns around their ability to access investors going into the future, their ability to employ EU talent and continue trading [on] markets," said Jiri Krol, deputy chief executive of Aima.
He added that for hedge fund managers running mutual funds, "if you don't have an EU-based management company, you probably shouldn't wait until the very end [of the negotiations between Britain and the EU] to set one up".
A survey of 142 alternative asset managers conducted by research firm Preqin after last month's referendum found that 7 per cent were thinking about moving operations out of the UK , while a further 17 per cent were still unsure whether to change where they are based.
Big mainstream asset managers, including M&G and Columbia Threadneedle, have already outlined plans to establish continental European operations or to move some staff to EU locations such as Luxembourg and Dublin to preserve their access.
Asset managers have been slow off the mark compared with other industries in planning for a Brexit. The banking industry, for example, met in London on the first Tuesday after the referendum result was revealed and Goldman Sachs has already recruited the former head of the European Commission to its board.
But the investment sector has moved into action in recent days, with senior executives, lawyers, regulators and consultants descending on London for a series of meetings to discuss the initial impact of the out vote and strategies for an uncertain future.
The Investment Association, which represents British asset managers with a combined £5.5tn in assets, held what one attendee described as a "don't panic" session to rally the industry, which has suffered billions of pounds of outflows following the vote .
Members discussed how they will lobby regulators in the EU without a voice in Brussels, and talked through the impact of a full exit on the City of London as a financial centre.
"The way we negotiate will need to change," the person said on condition of anonymity. "After Brexit [London] will no longer be the financial centre."
Mark Pugh, head of UK asset management at PwC, the consultancy, said the industry was behind with contingency planning because it had largely expected a remain vote. "The analysis or preparation of what it meant for the business was certainly not at a detailed level," he said.
According to an Aima survey of its members last week, almost all believe the UK should remain part of the single market or negotiate a third country passporting status .


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (79%); LUXEMBOURG (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               564 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Infrastructure a priority over tax cuts for 'Brexit refugees'   Healy

BYLINE: Marie O'Halloran

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 190 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: A Government EUR  1 billion spend on infrastructure would be a better use of resources than giving tax cuts to attract "Brexit refugees" from the City of London, according to the director of Social Justice Ireland.
Seán Healy said investment was crucial to addressing Ireland's infrastructure deficits. Referring to future possible resources available to the Government Dr Healy said "investing EUR  400 million of the fiscal space to deliver broadband to rural areas will have a much better impact on productivity and competitiveness than tax cuts".
Michelle Murphy, research and policy analyst for the think tank, said a EUR  400 million investment in broadband infrastructure would create jobs, support rural entrepreneurs and local business and rejuvenate rural towns and communities.
"It will also demonstrate Government's commitment to rural Ireland and to ensuring a more balanced spread of job creation," Ms Murphy said.
Dr Healy said the social housing crisis was a further example of the need to prioritise infrastructure and "we propose that Government allocate EUR  600 million of the fiscal space to social housing in Budget 2017".


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               565 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Martin backs Taoiseach's call for North-South talks on response to Brexit; FF leader says dialogue can go ahead without DUP involvement

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 675 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  The Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin has endorsed the proposal of a North-South dialogue to discuss the responses to the British decision to leave the EU.
The idea was resurrected by the Taoiseach Enda Kenny last week, following a public rebuff from the North's First Minister and DUP leader Arlene Foster.
Delivering the annual John Hume lecture at the MacGill Summer School in Glenties, Co Donegal, Mr Martin said such a forum would be an "opportunity to reach out to excluded groups, to show that a broader range of interests than those articulated by the dominant political parties can be heard."
Earlier, Mr Martin told journalists that the Government should lead a "civil dialogue" with stakeholder groups from North and South, including farmers, business organisations and civil society groups. An initial plenary session, he said, should be followed by a series of meetings around the country.
 DUP
not vital 
Mr Martin insisted that it was possible to go ahead with the dialogue without the DUP.  
He played down the result of opinion polls in two Sunday newspapers which showed gains for Fianna Fáil. 
"I don't mean to be rude to the pollsters, or dismissive," he said. "But just I don't bother - I mean, the polls are a distraction to me. I was very strongly of the view that the polls were wrong before the last election . . . I'm equally dismissive of the polls post the election. In this particular period, they're pretty meaningless. They don't tell me a whole lot, really."
He also dismissed suggestions that he would seek an early general election.
 "It's just not thinkable that you would be even contemplating an election," he said. "I think people just need to calm down."
In his speech Mr Martin was sharply critical of the DUP and Sinn Féin. He blamed them for "the return of openly sectarian campaigning to the mainstream" evident in last year's election in the North.
"Sinn Féin went as far as to publish a leaflet calling for Catholics to vote for them in order to get one over on the Protestants," he told the audience at the Highland Hotel.
Brexit threat
 Brexit represented a further threat to the North, he said, warning that the prospect of establishing Border controls between the two parts of the island represented a potential threat to the peace process.  
He said he hoped the Remain vote in the North could move support towards reunification. If so, "we should trigger a reunification referendum".
"However at this moment the only evidence we have is that the majority of people in Northern Ireland want to maintain open borders and a single market with this jurisdiction, and beyond that with the rest of Europe," Mr Martin said.
He also used his speech to criticise pundits and commentators who, he said, misunderstood the public demand for political change and so were wrong about the outcome of the February general election.
The need for political reform in Ireland - long a familiar theme at the summer school - is not "some abstract elite idea", Mr Martin said. 
"It is founded on a broadly held demand of the Irish people that we address the clear failures of our system."
Off-target polls 
"It would be easy to spend a lot of time making fun of just how wrong so many of the predictions and polls were - and I can assure you that there are many hours of entertainment available from reading the long list of predictions of our party's demise or eclipse," Mr Martin said.  
The core of his speech, however, was a strong defence of the political centre, in Europe and also in Ireland.
"The centre can hold and it can triumph over the extremes. It is possible to promote respect and co-operation in the face of even the most destructive forces," he said.
"For Ireland to prosper, for us to rebuild levels of political trust and engagement with the public, the path of a more reflective, expert and centre-ground politics is the only credible way forward."
The MacGill Summer School takes place all week in Glenties, with political debates and lectures every day. 
The Taoiseach, Enda Kenny is due to address an audience later today.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               566 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May tells Sturgeon: we'll talk Brexit but you don't get a veto

BYLINE: Francis Elliott; Mike Wade

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 933 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May is to make clear to Nicola Sturgeon that she cannot veto Brexit after Scotland's first minister boasted that she was in a "very powerful position" following talks last week.
The prime minister said that she would not trigger the formal two-year negotiation to take Britain out of the EU until "we have a UK approach and objectives" after talks with Ms Sturgeon on Friday.
Yesterday Ms Sturgeon was asked if that amounted to an effective veto and said: "Certainly from what [the prime minister] said after the meeting, I think that puts Scotland now in a very, very strong position. That's a position I am going to use as well as I can."
The first minister was asked what action she would take if a decision to trigger Article 50 was made before the end of this year without Scotland "on board". She said she would "absolutely, definitely" seek a re-run of the independence referendum, making clear that it could be held next year or in 2018, before the rest of the UK formally completes its EU departure.
Ms Sturgeon, however, reiterated her willingness to seek a solution with Mrs May, talking of a "window of opportunity" before the triggering of Article 50. The prime minister is expected to underline that despite offers to include the devolved administrations in discussions, the Westminster government would have the final say.
David Davis, who heads the new Brexit department, said that while it was right to address the concerns of Remain voters, including a majority of Scots, "they can't have a veto because there are 17.5 million people who have given us a mandate."
Conservative MPs who support Brexit are relaxed about Mrs May's commitment to involve Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland in talks. John Redwood, a Eurosceptic, said that it was a sensible approach. Downing Street will dismiss suggestions that it amounts to a veto.
Apart from a second independence referendum, which does not as yet command majority support in Scotland, the SNP scents an opportunity to press for a fully federal structure.
Last week Stephen Gethins, the party's Europe spokesman, floated the idea of Scotland staying in the EU and in the UK. Yesterday Ms Sturgeon said that the Brexit vote had remade the political scene. "We're in uncharted territory and when you are in uncharted territory with effectively a blank sheet of paper in front of you then you have the opportunity to try to think things that might have previously been unthinkable and shape the future. "I think there are opportunities. The positive outcome of the meeting I had with the prime minister on Friday was that she said she was prepared to listen to options the Scottish government would bring forward to give effect to how Scotland voted and we will certainly bring forward options."
Scottish Nationalists face the same currency question that dogged them during the 2014 referendum as new members of the EU have to join the eurozone. Ms Sturgeon has set up a group to look at options for protecting Scotland's place in Europe, including the currency question.
Some SNP figures are bullish about winning business backing for an option that keeps Scotland in the EU, even if that means independence. That confidence was further boosted by a thinktank report that found Scotland would be "well-qualified" to be a member of the EU in its own right.
The European Policy Centre said that as a "prosperous and stable democracy" which has already met and complied with EU rules for 40 years, "the EU should prepare to welcome Scotland as a member" if a referendum rerun results in a vote for independence. The report, written by the centre's senior adviser Graham Avery, suggested that it was in the EU's economic interests for Scotland to remain.
The likelihood of a rerun of the 2014 referendum should prompt the re-formation of the Yes Scotland campaign, according to Gordon Wilson, the former SNP leader.
Mr Wilson said that in a "remarkably dynamic" situation, support for independence was rising. He urged the SNP to revive Yes Scotland "to coerce the new Westminster government to concede a fresh independence referendum". He added: "The formation of Yes Scotland will remove a large part of the burden from the SNP government and permit it to concentrate on the negotiations."
David Davis, speaking on Sky News, dismissed the option of Scotland staying in both the UK and EU. "I don't think that works. One of our really challenging issues to deal with will be the internal border we have with southern Ireland and we're not going to go about creating other internal borders."
Q & A
What powers does Scotland have to block Brexit?
The SNP participated in the referendum and is as bound by the constitutional convention to respect its outcome as any other party. The international laws that govern the relationship between the EU and UK, moreover, don't allow for parallel negotiations over its exit with constituent parts of the UK.
So why any talk of a veto?
It suits Nicola Sturgeon to maximise the influence she is being offered to shape the UK's negotiating position. She was careful not to say she had a veto while behaving as if she did. Additionally most people think parliament will need to approve the formal start of talks and 53 SNP votes could provide a block.
What about Scotland remaining in the EU and the UK?
The SNP is feeling its way to an intermediary position in which it would remain in the EU while the rest of the UK left. It is confident it could line up business support for some kind of federal structure. The option begs enormous questions, not least the need for a hard border and the adoption of the euro.
Graphic
Nicola Sturgeon will use Scotland's "strong" positionTheresa May went as usual with her husband, Philip, to St Andrew's Church, Sonning, in her constituency The clear-out continued in Downing Street with the removal of what appeared to be the posts of a four-poster bed; Larry, the No10 cat, got into a spat with his Foreign Office rival, Palmerston; andROB PINNEY/LNP; BEN CAWTHRA/LNP; DAVID HARTLEY/PRESS PHOTOS


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); WALES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               567 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May will spell it out to Scots leader: you cannot stop Brexit

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 976 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May is to make clear to Nicola Sturgeon that she cannot veto Brexit after Scotland's first minister boasted that she was in a "very powerful position".
Mrs May said after talks with Ms Sturgeon on Friday that she would not trigger the formal two-year negotiation to take the UK out of EU until "we have a UK approach and objectives".
Yesterday Ms Sturgeon was asked if that amounted to an effective veto, and said: "Certainly from what [the prime minister] said after the meeting, I think that puts Scotland in now in a very, very strong position. That's a position I am going to use as well as I can."
However, the prime minister, who is visiting Wales today, is expected to underline that despite offers to include the devolved administrations in discussions before the move to trigger Article 50, thegovernment will have the final say on Brexit.
David Davis, who heads the new Brexit department, said that while it was right to address the concerns of Remain voters, including a majority of Scots, "they can't have a veto because there are 17.5 million people who have given us a mandate".
So far Conservative MPs who support Brexit are relaxed about Mrs May's commitment to involve Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland in talks. John Redwood, a Eurosceptic, said that it was a "sensible approach". Downing Street will make clear that suggestions of it amounting to a veto are wide of the mark.
Mrs May's consensual approach and Ms Sturgeon's reaction are early skirmishes in a battle over the future of the UK itself as it separates from the bloc. Apart from a second independence referendum, which does not as yet command majority support in Scotland, the SNP scents an opportunity to press for a fully federal structure.
Last week Stephen Gethins, the party's spokesman on Europe, floated the idea of Scotland staying in the EU and in the UK. Yesterday Ms Sturgeon said that the Brexit vote had remade the political scene. "We're in uncharted territory and when you are in uncharted territory with effectively a blank sheet of paper in front of you then you have the opportunity to try to think things that might have previously been unthinkable and shape the future.
"I think there are opportunities. The positive outcome of the meeting I had with the prime minister on Friday was that she said she was prepared to listen to options the Scottish government would bring forward to give effect to how Scotland voted and we will certainly bring forward options."
Scotland would face two big obstacles in its attempt to remain in the EU while the rest of the UK left. Other EU nations, notably Spain, are opposed to anything that would fuel other nationalist movements. Mariano Rajoy, Spain's prime minister, has said that if the UK leaves Scotland leaves too. Scottish nationalists face the same currency question that dogged them during the 2014 referendum as members of the EU have to join the eurozone.
Ms Sturgeon has set up a group to look at options for protecting Scotland's place in Europe, including the currency question. Some SNP figures are bullish about winning business backing for an option that keeps Scotland in the EU, even if that means independence.
Mr Davis, speaking on Sky News, dismissed the option of Scotland staying in both the UK and EU. "I don't think that works. One of our really challenging issues to deal with will be the internal border we have with southern Ireland and we're not going to go about creating other internal borders."
Mr Davis said that so far his new department had 40 staff but would grow to several hundred. He did little to dampen speculation of rivalry with Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, and Liam Fox, the international trade secretary.
Asked who was in charge he said that it was Mrs May but added that Mr Johnson and Dr Fox had "big other responsibilities".
On Saturday Mrs May spoke to Malcolm Turnbull, the Australian prime minister, who expressed a desire to open up trade between the two Commonwealth countries as a matter of urgency. Mr Davis said that no new trade deals could come into force until Britain had left the EU.
Today Mrs May visits Carwyn Jones, the first minster of Wales, which, unlike Scotland, voted to leave the EU. Speaking before the visit she said that she was "committed to helping the steel industry secure a long-term viable future in Wales", adding: "The steel industry is vital to the UK and we will do everything we can to look after the workers and wider community as we work with Tata and the Welsh government."
The clear-out continued in Downing Street with the removal of what appeared to the posts of a four-poster bed; Larry, the No10 cat, got into a spat with his Foreign Office rival, Palmerston; and Theresa May went as usual with her husband, Philip, to St Andrew's Church, Sonning, in her constituency
Q & A
What powers does Scotland have to block Brexit?
The SNP participated in the referendum and is as bound by the constitutional convention to respect its outcome as any other party. The international laws that govern the relationship between the EU and UK, moreover, don't allow for parallel negotiations over its exit with constituent parts of the UK.
So why any talk of a veto?
It suits Nicola Sturgeon to maximise the influence she is being offered to shape the UK's negotiating position. She was careful not to say she had a veto while behaving as if she did. Additionally most people think parliament will need to approve the formal start of talks and 53 SNP votes could provide a block.
What about Scotland remaining in the EU and the UK?
The SNP is feeling its way to an intermediary position in which it would remain in the EU while the rest of the UK left. It is confident it could line up business support for some kind of federal structure. The option begs enormous questions, not least the need for a hard border and the adoption of the euro.
Graphic
Nicola Sturgeon will use Scotland's "strong" positionROB PINNEY/LNP; BEN CAWTHRA/LNP; DAVID HARTLEY/PRESS PHOTOS


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); WALES (92%); SPAIN (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               568 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May will spell it out to Scots leader: you cannot stop Brexit

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 976 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May is to make clear to Nicola Sturgeon that she cannot veto Brexit after Scotland's first minister boasted that she was in a "very powerful position".
Mrs May said after talks with Ms Sturgeon on Friday that she would not trigger the formal two-year negotiation to take the UK out of EU until "we have a UK approach and objectives".
Yesterday Ms Sturgeon was asked if that amounted to an effective veto, and said: "Certainly from what [the prime minister] said after the meeting, I think that puts Scotland now in a very, very strong position. That's a position I am going to use as well as I can."
However, the prime minister, who is visiting Wales today, is expected to underline that despite offers to include the devolved administrations in discussions before the move to trigger Article 50, the government will have the final say on Brexit.
David Davis, who heads the new Brexit department, said that while it was right to address the concerns of Remain voters, including a majority of Scots, "they can't have a veto because there are 17.5 million people who have given us a mandate".
So far Conservative MPs who support Brexit are relaxed about Mrs May's commitment to involve Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland in talks. John Redwood, a Eurosceptic, said that it was a "sensible approach". Downing Street will make clear that suggestions of it amounting to a veto are wide of the mark.
Mrs May's consensual approach and Ms Sturgeon's reaction are early skirmishes in a battle over the future of the UK itself as it separates from the bloc. Apart from a second independence referendum, which does not as yet command majority support in Scotland, the SNP scents an opportunity to press for a fully federal structure.
Last week Stephen Gethins, the party's spokesman on Europe, floated the idea of Scotland staying in the EU and in the UK. Yesterday Ms Sturgeon said that the Brexit vote had remade the political scene. "We're in uncharted territory and when you are in uncharted territory with effectively a blank sheet of paper in front of you then you have the opportunity to try to think things that might have previously been unthinkable and shape the future.
"I think there are opportunities. The positive outcome of the meeting I had with the prime minister on Friday was that she said she was prepared to listen to options the Scottish government would bring forward to give effect to how Scotland voted and we will certainly bring forward options."
Scotland would face two big obstacles in its attempt to remain in the EU while the rest of the UK left. Other EU nations, notably Spain, are opposed to anything that would fuel other nationalist movements. Mariano Rajoy, Spain's prime minister, has said that if the UK leaves Scotland leaves too. Scottish nationalists face the same currency question that dogged them during the 2014 referendum as new EU members have to join the eurozone.
Ms Sturgeon has set up a group to look at options for protecting Scotland's place in Europe, including the currency question. Some SNP figures are bullish about winning business backing for an option that keeps Scotland in the EU, even if that means independence.
Mr Davis, speaking on Sky News, dismissed the option of Scotland staying in both the UK and EU. "I don't think that works. One of our really challenging issues will be the internal border we have with southern Ireland and we're not going to go about creating other internal borders."
Mr Davis said so far his new department had 40 staff but would grow to several hundred. He did little to dampen speculation of rivalry with Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, and Liam Fox, the international trade secretary. Asked who was in charge he said that it was Mrs May but added that Mr Johnson and Dr Fox had "big other responsibilities".
On Saturday Mrs May spoke to Malcolm Turnbull, the Australian prime minister, who expressed a desire to open up trade between the two Commonwealth countries as a matter of urgency.
Mr Davis said that no new trade deals could come into force until Britain had left the EU.
Today Mrs May visits Carwyn Jones, the first minster of Wales, which, unlike Scotland, voted to leave the EU. Speaking before the visit she said that she was "committed to helping the steel industry secure a long-term viable future in Wales", adding: "The steel industry is vital to the UK and we will do everything we can to look after the workers and wider community as we work with Tata and the Welsh government." Clare Foges, page 24 The clear-out continued in Downing Street with the removal of what appeared to be the posts of a four-poster bed; Larry, the No10 cat, got into a spat with his Foreign Office rival, Palmerston; and Theresa May went as usual with her husband, Philip, to St Andrew's Church, Sonning, in her constituency Q&A What powers does Scotland have to block Brexit? The SNP participated in the referendum and is as bound by the constitutional convention to respect its outcome as any other party. The international laws that govern the relationship between the EU and UK, moreover, don't allow for parallel negotiations over its exit with constituent parts of the UK.
So why any talk of a veto? It suits Nicola Sturgeon to maximise the influence she is being offered to shape the UK's negotiating position. She was careful not to say she had a veto while behaving as if she did. Additionally most people think parliament will need to approve the formal start of talks and 53 SNP votes could provide a block.
What about Scotland remaining in the EU and the UK? The SNP is feeling its way to an intermediary position in which it would remain in the EU while the rest of the UK left. It is confident it could line up business support for some kind of federal structure. The option begs enormous questions, not least the need for a hard border and the adoption of the euro.
Graphic
Nicola Sturgeon will use Scotland's "strong" positionROB PINNEY/LNP; BEN CAWTHRA/LNP; DAVID HARTLEY/PRESS PHOTOS


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); WALES (92%); SPAIN (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               569 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: No minimum wage hike post-Brexit - SFA; In brief

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 105 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: BREXIT reinforces the argument against raising the minimum wage, the Small Firms Association has said ahead of the publication of the Low Pay Commission's recommendations to Government.
"Brexit must be a wake-up call to the Government - competitiveness is crucial if small businesses are to withstand the impact of the vote" said Linda Barry (right), acting director of the SFA. "Exchange rate movements have already left Irish goods 19pc more expensive in the British market than they were at the end of 2015. Now is the time for action to enhance the Irish business environment, not to create additional pressures for businesses."


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               570 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Recession in UK by the year-end due to Brexit, says EY Item Club

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 176 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK will fall into a "short, shallow recession" around the turn of the year as Brexit hits house prices, jobs and spending, says the EY Item Club.
In a report published today, the forecaster say it's slashing its 2017 growth estimate to 0.4 per cent from 2.6 per cent and predicting the Bank of England will cut interest rates to zero by the end of 2016. 
Tax reductions are also a possibility, it says, as the government scales back austerity to aid an economy reeling from the shock vote.
"There are likely to be severe confidence effects on spending, only partially cushioned by a fall in the pound," says the report.
"We would expect a permanent reduction in the level of UK output and productivity."
Business investment will drop 2 per cent next year and the unemployment will reach 7.1 per cent by 2019, the report says. It expects consumer spending to fall 0.6 per cent in 2017, with big-ticket items particularly affected. House prices will fall by 4 per cent.
Exports are the only bright spot, predicted to increase 3.4 per cent next year. 
- Bloomberg


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               571 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: StanChart warns of moving HQ from Britain if banks are hit with Brexit tax

BYLINE: Martin Arnold in London

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 329 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Standard Chartered's chief executive has said the emerging markets bank would consider moving its headquarters out of the UK if the country's vote to exit the EU prompts politicians to pummel the banking sector with extra taxes.
Bill Winters told the Financial Times: "There is so much fiscal pressure on the government; it could be tempted to take another swipe at the banks and that would cause us to take another look at the headquarters issue."
He said the anti-establishment mood that drove many people to vote for Brexit made him worry that the big lenders would "continue to be treated as the piggy banks to be raided whenever you need money".
StanChart has considered leaving the UK before, most recently after the government ratcheted up the special levy it imposes on the banking sector last year. But relocation is not currently on the agenda of StanChart's board, even though its share of the UK bank levy rose by a fifth to $440m last year
HSBC, its bigger rival, decided earlier this year to keep its headquarters in the UK and it said recently that the Brexit vote would not reopen the issue. Last year the government said it would gradually reduce the bank levy and make it less punitive for global lenders, particularly HSBC and StanChart.
Mr Winters, who has been in charge of StanChart for a year, spoke to the FT twice - just before the referendum on EU membership and shortly before Theresa May was made prime minister.
His comments could raise hackles among rivals, as many top banking executives are urging the sector to avoid warnings about the potential loss of jobs and activity in the City of London because of Brexit. JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and HSBC have all said they could move jobs out of London if trade barriers spring up with the EU.
Mr Winters said the Brexit vote could be a short-term boost for StanChart, which is listed and based in the UK, but does most of its business in Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The Monday interview page 20


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               572 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: There are ruffled feathers down on the farm after vote for Brexit; Food producers are contemplating an uncertain future after voters sprang a surprise by deciding to quit the EU, writes Josephine Moulds GOING FOR GROWTH Agriculture is facing new challenges on the way to market

BYLINE: Josephine Moulds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48,49

LENGTH: 1160 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Farmers tend to know which way the wind is blowing, but even they were caught on the hop by the result of last month's European Union referendum.
Richard Lister, a North Yorkshire pig farmer, says: "Most people were of the opinion, even up until 11 or 12 o'clock on the night, that we were still going to be part of Europe."
As such, he admits he did not make any preparations for a Leave vote, such as swapping pounds into euros or easing off a planned expansion. He doubts he's alone. "I would probably be 100 per cent sure that nobody else took any action because I don't think people thoroughly believed that we were about to go out."
Britain's food producers had a huge stake in the vote. Almost 40 per cent of the EU budget is spent on agriculture. Britain's farms, packing facilities and food manufacturers are reliant on migrant workers, with farming subsidies and many regulations all come from Europe.
While many sectors were tilted towards supporting the Remain campaign, the food industry, like the country, was split. The National Farmers Union said in April that the interests of farmers were best served by staying in the EU, but it did not advise its members which way to vote.
Minette Batters, deputy president of the NFU, is putting a brave face on Brexit. "A lot of farmers did vote out. For a lot of them there is an air of excitement, that this is a fresh start for British agriculture."
However, she says the scale of the challenge faced by Theresa May's new government is significant. "[The European Union] allowed the government not to have any form of substantial food policy at all. We lived under the European umbrella, we could trade tax-free and the British consumer was totally protected by our links with Europe. We've now severed that link." Her immediate concern is that farming will be sidelined. "You cannot have agriculture and food as the sacrificial lamb on the back of the car industry."
The Brexiteers promised cheaper food after a vote to leave, which Ms Batters says points to hopes of a trade deal for cut-price imports from Latin America, where "they have very different standards of production. On traceability and welfare, [Britain] would lead the world. My priority is making sure that the British consumer can still buy British strawberries, British beef, British lamb, because they want to buy it, and I think, being an island nation, it is absolutely right that they can buy it."
Lance Forman, a smoked salmon producer, is among those celebrating the result. His business endured the EU's "mad bureaucracy", he says, spending thousands of pounds on new packaging so that a packet of smoked salmon could carry the warning "contains fish". He argues that this is "not just costly, it's also very time consuming to have to deal with all this bureaucracy on a day-today basis".
The problem with the single market is that every company has to abide by its rules, not only those exporting into the EU, he says. He hopes that the vote to leave will cut some of that red import and export news tape. "I would like to think there will be less burdensome regulation. However, we don't know."
The arguments about trade were overblown by Remain campaigners, he argues. "The real world doesn't worry about trade deals. We've never had a trade deal with the US: trade happens anyway. Even the talk about tariffs: the average tariff the EU charges is about 2.5 per cent, but the pound has fluctuated against the euro by 60 per cent. It's irrelevant." The plummeting value of the pound since the referendum has had an immediate impact on British food producers. A weaker pound is generally seen as good news because it makes British food more costcompetitive. Sadly, it's not quite that simple. Many food producers import packaging, fertiliser or machinery from Europe. Ms Batters says: "If you'd bought fertiliser in early June, it was £15 a tonne cheaper than it is now. The input costs are incredibly volatile. These peaks and troughs are the worst because it's very difficult to plan ahead and your budget is going to be completely blown apart."
There was concern that this uncertainty would cause food businesses to halt investments. Not so, according to Sarah Louise Fairburn, director of LJ Fairburn & Son, one of the largest egg producers and packers in the UK. She says that the family-owned business, which had sales of £44 million last year, cannot afford to stand still and is already building an extension to its new packing station.
The exchange rate is a concern, she says, as many of LJ Fairburn's costs are in euros, but she takes heart from the fact that everyone is in the same boat. "That gives us that bit of reassurance. They will also be sourcing feed and packaging from similar places. If our prices are going up, I imagine everyone else's are as well."
She is more concerned about limits to the free movement of labour. "It all depends on what is going to be put in place. If it's an Australian-type points system where somebody has to have various different trades or qualifications to add value, then for people that want to pack eggs maybe we would struggle from that perspective."
Farmers say there are not enough British people willing and able to keep the UK's food system going. "Trying to find young people that want to come into agriculture is always a challenge," says Mr Lister, whose farm has a yearly turnover of £15.5 million. "It's been better recently, but migrant labour is absolutely essential for doing all those jobs that people in this country don't seem to want to do."
There is also a problem of geography. Farmers and growers are in rural locations where few people actually live. Most Britons do not want to do seasonal work where they have to live on-site, while many Europeans are happy to travel to the UK solely for the temporary work.
"Our whole food supply chain is pretty much underpinned by a European workforce," Ms Batters says, her upbeat take on Brexit slipping momentarily. However, she says she is at least trying to share the optimism of her members who voted to leave.
"We are where we are. We can't change the vote, but we absolutely now have to shape the future."
Trying to maintain a level (playing) field Farming subsidies were a fraught topic before the vote. Leave campaigners insisted that support would be maintained, while impartial research from the House of Commons library said that was "unlikely". Minette Batters, deputy president of the NFU, says: "Most farmers would rather farm without support, but it's all about a level playing field." British farmers compete with those in the Republic of Ireland, for example, who will continue to enjoy EU support post-Brexit. "The market will drive this," she says, "so processors, retailers will look to buy the best deal the market offers."
Sarah Louise Fairburn has concerns for labour availability, at her family's egg business and in the wider industry, which Minette Batters, of the NFU, below, hopes is not hit by Brexit
Graphic
MARTIN POPE FOR THE TIMES


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               573 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May's transformative agenda could be bigger than Brexit; A cabinet clearout and a promise to govern for the poorest offer renewal, though the road ahead is hard

BYLINE: Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1047 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: On Monday the prime minister heads to the House of Commons to lead the vote for the renewal of Trident. Her team is planning a possible trip to a major European nation later in the week. There will be preparations for her first PMQs. Her astonishingly thorough remodelling of the cabinet - quite unlike David Cameron's very occasional shake-ups - will need to be bedded in and stress tested.
A week ago Theresa May was still home secretary - a great office of state, to which she was astonished to be appointed in 2010. As her arrival in Downing Street filled our screens, I was reminded of the Tory grandee who told me during the coalition years: "Theresa is a jolly nice girl with a terrific team. But she'll never be leader. Not a chance." I wonder what he is thinking now.
May, for her part, exploited lazy chauvinism of this sort to position herself perfectly for this moment, whenever it came. Sooner or later, the boys in tails and fancy waistcoats who ran the country would turn on one another, and when they did she would be ready to step in. Cameron spotted what she was up to. When pressed on his potential successors, he consistently named George Osborne, Boris Johnson - and Theresa May. In the event, she was the only one of the gilded trio who ran for the job.
May's task has been to mark, ruthlessly, a moment of change, to usher in a season of radical transformation
As a contender, May's most important insight reflected the context of her candidacy: after the referendum result and the consequent political upheaval, she could not be the candidate for continuity Cameronism. There is much in his legacy that is worth preserving, notably the ambitions for social reform that were always obscured by the work of economic repair. But May's task has been to mark, ruthlessly, a moment of change, to usher in a season of radical transformation.
It helps that she and her predecessor have such different personalities: Cameron was always warmly feudal while May, though perfectly pleasant, is unswervingly businesslike. Though Cameron never allowed his team's deliberations to slip into "sofa government", I expect May to adopt a more formal approach. In principle the new regime wants to decentralise more power to departments and prevent the long reach of Downing Street and the Cabinet Office becoming a de facto West Wing - a constitutionally noble objective that may not survive the slings and arrows of crisis.
Not being Dave meant building a completely new cabinet, sending a message to party, media and public that the new prime minister did not feel remotely constrained by her predecessor. Michael Gove would be an asset to any department, and is simply too talented to have reached the end of the road. But Team May could not envisage him sitting at the cabinet table near to Boris Johnson, the victim of his supposed "treachery", and took what chancellors call "a difficult decision".
On the subject of chancellors, the sudden exile of George Osborne has been seriously misrepresented. Between December 2005 and last week the Conservative party was controlled by a duumvirate, an alliance as close as the Blair-Brown rivalry was bitter and destructive. For six years all meaningful power in the nation state flowed from the Cameron-Osborne axis. So the new team took a decision as rational as it was risky: to purge the duo in full, and not just its Cameronian wing.
The gossip that Osborne is seething in a bunker, egged on by his supporters, is wide of the mark. After six years as the architect of austerity, cutting and cutting and cutting - never enough to please the right, and always too much for fiscal nimbys (who were all for savings, until their own departmental backyards were affected) - he is at last released from this cycle. At least twice a year Osborne made statements about the public finances that invariably promised more pain and more parsimony. Throughout his ministerial career, he has been the electorate's piñata. I am reliably informed that, released from this role, he is "demob happy" and not consumed by resentment. In time, that warm glow will fade. But for now, Team May has nothing to worry about.
Four weeks ago I suggested in this column that David Davis should be put in charge of Brexit negotiations. As a civil libertarian - the most prominent of the Runnymede Tories - he was not an obvious pick for the former home secretary. But his appointment is one of the most imaginative of the entire reshuffle, along with the choice of Damian Green, an admirably consistent practitioner of compassionate conservatism who will bring a serious grasp of policy detail as well as authentic one-nation credentials to bear on his new job as work and pensions secretary.
 Related:  Who is the real Theresa May? Six writers on what her cabinet says about her | The panel
Having established that she is not Cameron's twin sister, May must also persuade the world that she is not Thatcher's lost daughter. Freud would have had a field day examining the Tory party's neurotic relationship with gender, and its collective reverence for the first female prime minister - a reverence that has nothing to do with feminism. Those Tories - politicians and pundits - who long for May to revive the glory years of 1979-90 are talking nonsense. It is no more logical for May to set her compass by the ideology of a predecessor who left office 26 years ago than it would have been for Thatcher to model herself on the Churchill of 1953.
It is beyond obvious that May's principal challenge will be the implementation of Brexit, and the extent to which she is able to reconcile the two most powerful forces of 21st century globalisation: the drive for economic growth and unprecedented population mobility. She is constrained by a small majority. The assault course ahead is forbidding.
What makes her intriguing is the radicalism she promised from Downing Street on Wednesday. To govern for the disadvantaged and the disenfranchised, for the families that are "just managing", for those who do not share the presumptions of "the fortunate few". If this is more than rhetoric, it represents the beginning of a transformative premiership. If she means what she says, Brexit will be no more than the backdrop to something much more turbulent, disruptive and welcome.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               574 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday 12:02 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: UK economy must endure 'short, sharp shock' after Brexit vote; Forecast group EY Item Club says business investment and consumer spending will be held back because of uncertainty

BYLINE: Gwyn Topham

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 801 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The UK economy will have to weather a short, sharp shock, with Brexit uncertainty holding back both business investment and consumer spending, according to a leading economic forecasting group. 
As forecasters cut growth expectations, a survey of finance chiefs showed caution increasing since the referendum, and retailers reported fewer shoppers on the high street than a year ago. 
Severe dents to confidence mean the post-referendum economy is on "a very different path" from three months ago, said the EY Item Club, a forecasting group that uses Treasury modelling. It has slashed its predictions of economic growth for the next few years. 
In April, Item said the UK's GDP would grow by 2.6% in 2017 - a figure it now expects to be barely 0.4%. It expects the pound to have fallen 15% in a year by the end of 2016, and decline further through the decade. 
Consolation for borrowers may come from marginally lower interest rates in the short term, while a severely weakened pound will help exports - although not enough to prevent a significant deterioration in the UK's prospects.
 Related:  Brexit impact is going to be horrible, says leading City fund manager
Peter Spencer, chief economic adviser at Item, said: "Longer-term, the UK may have to adjust to a permanent reduction in the size of the economy, compared with the trend that seemed possible prior to the vote." 
Steve Varley, chairman of EY UK, said the next two years would be "undoubtedly challenging". He added: "The UK government will need to quickly introduce measures to help offset Brexit blues, support the economy and continue to attract foreign investment.
"The focus now needs to be on making sure that the UK negotiates the right trade deals that will allow access to key markets." 
Unemployment is forecast to rise from 5% to 7.1% by the end of 2019, cutting household disposable income. Consumer spending is expected to fall next year - the first decline since 2011.
Spencer said: "Worries about jobs are likely to see shoppers hold back on big ticket purchases, such as cars and housing-related spending. At the same time, higher inflation off the back of sterling's weakness will squeeze growth in real incomes."
Meanwhile, the sole member of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to vote to cut interest rates last week, as the bank held the rate constant, yesterday said inflation expections beyond the next few years had fallen since the referendum from an already low base. 
Gertjan Vlieghe, writing in the Financial Times to outline why he voted for an immediate cut, said: "It was clear enough to me already that we would not return inflation to [the Bank's] target sustainably without further monetary policy action." As well as a rate cut, he has argued for further stimulus from the Bank. 
 Related:  Bank of England holds UK interest rates: what the economists say
Meanwhile, a survey of 132 chief financial officers at major UK companies showed that business optimism had declined to the point where most were gloomier about their firm's prospects now than during the height of the financial crisis. 
According to the poll by Deloitte, more than four out of five CFOs expect to cut hiring and discretionary spending in the next year. 
David Sproul, senior partner and chief executive of Deloitte, said: "The outcome of the EU referendum has triggered a sharp, negative response from the corporate sector."
While the speedy appointment of Theresa May as prime minister had reduced uncertainty, he said a vision for the UK's future relationship with the EU should be set out for further stability and reassurance. 
Elsewhere, retailers reported a drop in shoppers on the high street in the week after the referendum, compared with the same period last year. 
While footfall figures for high streets, shopping centres and retail parks have been up in the first week of June, they finished the month 2.8% lower than the same period last year. This is the deepest decline since February 2014. 
                     Poor weather  may have played a part, said Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium. She added: "June has [also] seen many distractions, from Euro 2016 to Wimbledon, so heading out to the shops seems to have slipped down the priority list for many."
Dickinson said retailers should redouble efforts in the coming months and, adding: "The EU referendum will not have changed the in-store experience for customers and, crucially, the price of goods on the shelves."
Although slightly more shoppers were out in the days after the referendum than before, the last week of each month normally sees a surge in spending at a time when many people get their pay packets. Data from Barclaycard released last week showed discretionary spending in pubs and restaurants fell back from 24 June. 


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               575 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 18, 2016 Monday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Whitehall faces turf wars after Brexit vote upheaval; Civil service is being restructured to deliver a breakaway from the EU

BYLINE: James Blitz and Sarah Neville

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 911 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Nowhere are the implications of Brexit being felt more keenly than Whitehall, where the machinery of government must undertake a task of unprecedented political and legal complexity.
Since the June 23 referendum, Britain's top mandarins have begun recasting the way the civil service is structured in order to "deliver Brexit". This process has been accelerated by the advent of the new government and the creation or redrawing of several key ministries.
"What you are seeing across Whitehall is a quite remarkable amount of upheaval," says a former senior official, "with turf battles opening up all over the place involving lots of resources and people."
At the heart of this overhaul is the new ministry for Brexit, or the Department for Exiting the European Union, to give it its formal title.
Headed by Eurosceptic rightwinger David Davis, this is to be a self-contained new ministry and not, as had first been expected, an offshoot of the Cabinet Office adjacent to Number 10 Downing Street. The ministry could take over the building hitherto occupied by the -abolished Department of Energy and Climate Change.
The role of Mr Davis's department is sweeping. It not only has to start negotiations with 27 EU members over the British withdrawal, much of which will focus on the trade-off between immigration controls and access to the single market, it must also develop a negotiating position on every other aspect of UK policy in relation to the EU, a task that will leave no part of Whitehall untouched.
To help achieve this, many departments - in particular the Foreign Office, the Treasury, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the former business department - are being told to send teams of officials to the Brexit ministry. However, Downing Street has also taken care to ensure that the new department does not fall out of its control and that it is answerable to Theresa May, the prime minister.
One of David Cameron's last acts in office was to appoint Olly Robbins, a top Cabinet Office mandarin, as permanent secretary at the department. Mr Robbins is described by a former official as "a great Whitehall operator and close to [Sir] Jeremy Heywood [the cabinet secretary]". He has also worked closely with Mrs May on security matters during her time as home secretary.
The creation of the new Department for International Trade under Liam Fox, another Conservative rightwinger, is the other major logistical challenge facing Whitehall.
Britain has very few trade negotiators because policy has been outsourced to the EU for the past 40 years. According to a recent report by a committee of MPs, Britain has between 12 and 20 officials "with direct knowledge of trade negotiations". Canada, which recently negotiated a free-trade agreement with the EU, has 830.
One senior official says this lack of resources poses a serious challenge for Mr Fox because he needs to start conducting trade negotiations with non-EU states immediately, working in parallel with Britain's disengagement from the EU.
"I don't know where he will get the resources he needs," said the official. "He might be able to lure some people back from Brussels where they are working for the [European] Commission. But he will also have to think about bringing some in from other anglophone states and from the private sector. In terms of remunerating people, that could prove expensive."
Perhaps the biggest headache is the one facing Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary. The Foreign Office is having to transfer many officials to Mr Davis's ministry, especially from its Europe directorate and the UK's permanent representation in Brussels. This hollowing out may prove tough for the Foreign Office, which has borne the brunt of severe spending cuts in recent years.
Before moving to the Treasury, Philip Hammond, Mr Johnson's predecessor, said "we are pretty close to the irreducible minimum of UK-based staff" on the Foreign Office network. Sir Simon Fraser, the former permanent secretary, recently warned it would need real terms spending increases to assist with the "major diplomatic initiatives" that would be needed after the referendum result.
For Whitehall departments, which have traditionally operated as self-contained fiefdoms, such changes may be painful.
Trade 
Informal discussions open with Australia and other countries
Theresa May's government is setting in motion a number of informal trade talks with countries including Australia and is preparing to have agreements in place in time for Britain's formal departure from the EU.
Downing Street officials said the deals would be ready up to "the point of signing" given that Britain is not meant to formally negotiate trade deals while it is still a member of the EU. A number of talks "are happening already", the official added.
While informal discussions have got off to a speedy start, Britain's lack of experienced trade negotiators suggests full agreement may be harder to achieve.
David Davis, who heads the Department for Exiting the European Union, told Sky News yesterday that he hoped to trigger negotiations to leave the EU by the "beginning of next year" and to see Britain leave the bloc two years after that.
That would set the clock ticking to complete other trade deals in time for the UK's formal exit from the EU.
On Friday, Mrs May spoke with Malcolm Turnbull, her Australian counterpart, who said he wanted to sign a deal with the UK "as soon as possible". Gonzalo Viña
See Wolfgang Münchau


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               576 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 9:18 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Theresa May vows to make success of Brexit as cabinet meets for first time; Prime minister says her government will 'make Brexit work for Britain' but says social justice will be at heart of administration

BYLINE: Peter Walker

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 492 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May has promised ahead of her first cabinet meeting that the government will not be "defined by Brexit" but will nonetheless make a success of the country's departure from the EU.
The prime minister, who campaigned to remain in the EU, was to convene her now-completed cabinet for the first time at 9.30am on Tuesday. It follows victory in her first major House of Commons vote in the job, when MPs voted for renewal of the Trident nuclear submarine programme by a majority of 355.
In remarks released by Downing street before the meeting, May said it was up to all her ministers to ensure the process went well. "Brexit means Brexit - and we're going to make a success of it," she was quoted as saying, repeating remarks she has made several times since becoming PM last week.
Her statement echoed the social justice tone of her first address at Downing Street last week. She said: "It will be the responsibility of everyone sitting around the cabinet table to make Brexit work for Britain. And it will also be their duty to deliver success on behalf of everyone in the UK, not just the privileged few. That is why social justice will be at the heart of my government."
She continued: "So we will not allow the country to be defined by Brexit; but instead build the education, skills, and social mobility to allow everyone to prosper from the opportunities of leaving the EU."
According to Downing Street, following the cabinet meeting May was to host her first session of the national security council, where her security adviser, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, will give an overview of current threats in the wake of events like the Nice attack and the attempted coup in Turkey.
Later this week, May will make her first overseas trip as prime minister. On Wednesday, she will hold talks in Berlin with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, before heading to Paris the next day to see the French president, François Hollande. Talks with both will focus on maintaining good relations in the wake of the Brexit vote, as well as initial discussions on how the process might proceed.
During Monday's Trident debate, May prompted gasps in the Commons when she confirmed she would authorise a nuclear strike killing 100,000 or more people if it was necessary.
The SNP MP George Kerevan intervened in May's opening speech to ask: "Is she personally prepared to authorise a nuclear strike that can kill 100,000 innocent men, women and children?" 
May replied: "Yes." She adde: "And I have to say to the honourable gentleman the whole point of a deterrent is that our enemies need to know that we would be prepared to use it, unlike some suggestions that we could have a deterrent but not actually be willing to use it, which seem to come from the Labour party frontbench." 
Labour's leader has made it clear he would not authorise a nuclear strike as prime minister. His party is split on the issue, with more than half of Corbyn's MPs voting in favour of Trident renewal.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               577 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 7:45 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit could help revive British manufacturing; British brands need to design, manufacture and produce locally - fashion entrepreneur Heidy Rehman believes luxury brands can drive the change

BYLINE: Heidy Rehman

SECTION: GUARDIAN SMALL BUSINESS NETWORK

LENGTH: 743 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Amid the fear and uncertainty surrounding Britain's post-Brexit future, a spotlight has shone on the imbalance of our economy, its weighting to services over manufacturing. But I believe there are reasons to be optimistic - and especially for the fashion industry, which directly contributed  £26bn to the UK economy in 2014.
A former stockbroker, I founded and now manage Rose & Willard, a womenswear brand that is unusual in that we design, manufacture and retail our products from one location in London. Fashion is highly competitive and we now face tough challenges. We have to balance the benefits of a weaker currency, which has stimulated overseas demand, against more costly Italian fabrics. Passing on costs to the customer will be difficult for a discretionary product.
I believe opportunity for post-Brexit Britain lies in the structural shift in demand: consumers don't want to wait six to nine months from fashion week to buy a product. Lengthy global supply chains may soon become unworkable - so brands will have no choice but to produce in the UK. 
Politicians need to step in and help manufacturers win back some of the business that has been lost to globalisation, while also helping British brands choose British manufacturing over competitor hubs in Poland, Portugal or Hungary. And luxury brands could drive the change.
In recent years many luxury brands have shifted manufacturing away from traditional manufacturing locations to lower-cost regions. Costs have been stripped from the product and switched into advertising and trophy shops - resulting in high fixed costs. This has happened because the customer base has evolved from the small scale very wealthy luxury customer to the much larger scale more marginal aspirational customer. Scale has become important and, as a result of globalisation, this can only be provided by low-cost, overseas manufacturers.
We use the same luxury fabrics and materials as high-end brands and we manufacture in the UK. But we keep our fixed costs low: our facility is not in a prime location and we have pop-ups rather than expensive shops. This has allowed us to provide an affordable yet high quality product - it can be done and indeed luxury customers may expect their product to be made in a market associated with luxury and quality, such as the UK.
Leave politicians campaigned vociferously on how cutting EU red tape would reduce costs - and as a small business owner I would like to see this happen. But the shutters must not come down on immigration. Eastern European machinists have a wealth of skill and experience that they can pass on to British trainees. Alongside this the government needs to provide vocational training to develop a competitive British workforce.
This needs to start with education in schools so manufacturing jobs are seen as desirable options. My creative team has told me that a garment machinist role was never presented to them as an option when they were considering a career in the fashion industry, and I have struggled to hire apprentice machinists. 
Technology investment is also needed. British fabric is high quality but addresses only a small market, mainly men's formal tailoring. It needs to compete with the luxury of Italian products and the technical performance of Swiss and Japanese materials. I have tried to source from British mills but rarely have found fabrics suitable for modern womenswear. 
If British mills could provide the stretch in fabric that is required for professional women's workwear there would be a ready market. 
There is also demand for technical fabrics that can wick away sweat, that are crease-resistant, that feel luxurious but are also washable. We have found such fabrics overseas but none in the UK. 
The government has facilitated startup loans and seed funds are available - but for businesses to grow from SMEs to large businesses, there needs to be a clear plan. What we don't need is a sudden and surprising cut to corporation tax when our rate is already globally competitive.
During the daunting time I was setting up my business, a friend said to me: "Don't be afraid of change." It was sound advice. Now politicians need now to convince us of that, too. 
                     Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network                                            here                                           for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); POLAND (53%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               578 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit exposes Kenny's shaky grip on power; Ireland

BYLINE: Vincent Boland in Dublin

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: When Enda Kenny addressed an audience in Dublin last week in the wake of the UK's shock Brexit vote, he reached for a stock line for Irish politicians - a quote from the poet WB Yeats to the effect that things had not just changed, they had "changed utterly".
The Irish prime minister was referring to a referendum outcome that has thrown his country's relationship with its closest neighbour and trading partner into confusion. Yet he could also have had his own career as Taoiseach in mind after what has been his worst period since he took office in 2011.
A day earlier, he had held a showdown meeting with MPs from the centre-right Fine Gael party he has led since 2002. Amid uncertainty over Brexit, a series of minor but cumulatively damaging policy mistakes, and discontent among some backbenchers with his party management, Mr Kenny had faced down demands that he name the date he will leave office.
It may have been only a reprieve . For Mr Kenny, who said this year that he would not lead his party into the next election, the past three weeks have exposed his tenuous hold on a shaky minority government.
As Pat Leahy, political editor of the Irish Times, wrote: "Make no mistake about it. Enda Kenny's career as Taoiseach and Fine Gael leader is drawing to a close."
The UK vote has profound implications for Ireland: not least because it reopens questions over the border that once scarred the island but has almost disappeared over two decades of peace in Northern Ireland.
The weakness of the Kenny government also casts doubt on its ability to address Ireland's policy challenges, including a housing shortage and shabby public services that have been starved of investment after years of austerity. It will also complicate the ability of his administration to respond to conflicting signals about the health of the Irish economy.
Official figures last week showed gross domestic product grew 26 per cent last year - eliciting disbelief around the world. Unemployment is now below 9 per cent, having reached 15 per cent in 2012 at the height of Ireland's financial crisis.
Yet the recovery is uneven and has disproportionately favoured Dublin. There is a clamour across the political spectrum and from employers and trade unions for a long-term rise in public investment in infrastructure, education, housing, and research and development. According to Eurostat, the EU statistics agency, Ireland spends significantly less in these areas than its European peers.
"I can see how difficult it will be to negotiate a tactically sound budget, but we can't afford to delay," says Fergal O'Brien, policy director at the Ibec employers' lobby group.
Things were not supposed to be like this. When in May Mr Kenny became the first Fine Gael leader to head a second successive government, there was talk of an era of "new politics" in Ireland. His administration contains independent MPs and is supported by Fianna Fáil, the main opposition party.
But it turns out that the new Irish politics is similar to the old one: provincial, back-stabbing, seat-of-the-pants governance. Another problem for Mr Kenny is that Fianna Fáil, which was hounded out of office in 2011 after the calamity of Ireland's financial crisis, is recovering strongly. An opinion poll last week put its support at 33 per cent, against just 24 per cent for Fine Gael.
Senior ministers insist the government is stable and united despite last week's confrontation. Yet while the deal between Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil is meant to last for more than two years, they also acknowledge the difficulty of the arrangement.
"It's a minority government - every time we go to parliament we can lose a vote," says Michael Noonan, the veteran finance minister. "It's a new experience."
Compounded by Brexit, the sense of a policy vacuum is growing. Mr Kenny is reorganising his own department to deal with the challenges posed by Brexit, which has been met by universal dismay in Dublin. But what is needed most, the government's growing army of critics say, is competence and stability. As the Irish Independent editorialised last week: "There must be an end to the sense of drift which has, in truth, underpinned politics in this country for close to a year."


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); IRELAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); IE Ireland; GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               579 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit minister at odds with City employers as 'main aims' take shape

BYLINE: Patrick Jenkins on Finance

SECTION: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 776 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: For those who felt the UK's Brexit vote was an earthquake, the formation of a new government has been the aftershock. In the City of London, there were mixed emotions about last week's senior appointments. For many, there was relief at Philip Hammond's appointment as chancellor but dismay at David Davis's role as Brexit minister.
Mr Hammond made a heartening early pledge "to ensure access to the single market for our financial services industry". Mr Davis has been rather less focused on finance. In a 2,000-word article on the Conservative Home website, he mentioned the City only once - and, even then, with the same implied suspicion he seems to have for farmers, academics and the broader business world.
"Common sense," he wrote, "implies that we should consult with stakeholders like the City, CBI, TUC, small business bodies, the NFU, universities and research foundations and the like. None of them should have any sort of veto, but we should try to accommodate their concerns so long as it does not compromise the main aim."
He does not spell out what "the main aim" is, apart from claiming throughout his manifesto that Brexit is about unshackling Britain from the limitations of the EU.
Most big City employers see things differently. Banks, asset managers and insurers - and their UK employees - all potentially have a lot to lose. For these institutions, the immediate concern is to reassure European staff who work in the UK under the "free movement of people" rules. An estimated 20-30 per cent of staff at the big banks and asset managers come from non-UK EU countries.
At the same time, they are impatient to communicate what is at stake. Any employer involved in European securities trading will be keen to keep a euro clearing hub in London (probably a lost cause, given the European Central Bank's likely insistence it moves inside the eurozone).
Easy access into the EU single market is another big priority. Banks' trading operations may be able to tap into incoming "Mifid 2" rules allowing non-EU countries to access the single market if their regulatory set-up is deemed to be of an "equivalent" standard.
However, there are three big problems with this. First, the precedent of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is not encouraging. AIFMD also contains an "equivalence" provision, but, five years on, and no jurisdiction has yet been granted leave to use it. Vengeful forces within the EU will be even keener to ensure that the Mifid 2 equivalence provisions are not available to the UK.
Second, even if the UK were granted equivalent status, bankers worry that access could be rescinded with four weeks' notice. That makes the arrangement too insecure to be of use, unless it is underpinned with a specific treaty (unlikely if there is no UK compromise on immigration).
Third, the UK's new Brexit minister seems convinced that deregulation - as opposed to the maintenance of equivalent regulation - will help everyone. In his Conservative Home article, Mr Davis talks about "needless and restrictive" regulation and explains: "Regulation already in place will stay for the moment, but the flood of new regulation from Europe will be halted." That way forward might sound liberating but it could scupper any remaining hope of exploiting those Mifid 2 equivalence rules.
There may, of course, be a way of breaking this deadlock, especially if EU countries come to realise that they, too, benefit from the strength of London's financial centre.
In the meantime, though, some in the City are thinking creatively. One top banker with substantial political experience believes a UK-EU treaty benefiting financial services as a whole will be so fiendish to hammer out that a more creative approach is called for. It should be possible, he believes, for individual companies to negotiate a deal whereby they continue to be regarded as EU entities for the purposes of regulation and market access.
If that seems fanciful, one potential starting point could be to incorporate as a so-called Societas Europeae (SE), the little-known EU company standard. Up to now, hardly any British companies - with the exception of a few insurers, led by Aviva - have used the SE model.
But, as long as the UK is still in the EU, changing from a PLC into an SE is perfectly feasible. Being an SE in turn grants a kind of "free movement of company" status, making it easier to move operations across EU borders.
And, for Theresa May, who in her first speech as prime minister insisted that "big business needs to change" to enfranchise employees, there would be another plus: SE rules demand that workers are represented on boards.
patrick.jenkins@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               580 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit talk shows Washington retains appetite for trade deals

BYLINE: Shawn Donnan

SECTION: GLOBAL INSIGHT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The parallels with the anti-establishment movement Donald Trump is leading into this week's Republican convention in Cleveland have made Britain's vote to leave the EU a hot topic of conversation among Republicans.
Mr Trump quickly read the UK referendum vote as an affirmation of his pledge to dismantle "globalism". The day after the ballot, he proclaimed: "People are angry all over the world."
But some of the same mainstream Republicans Mr Trump has taken over on issues such as race, trade and the general rules of debate and decorum in US politics have also identified Brexit as a longer-term strategic opportunity.
Last week two of the most powerful Republicans in Congress called on President Barack Obama - who not so long ago was pushing the UK to the "back of the queue" - to quickly open discussions on a trade agreement with a new British government.
Such a pact, their argument goes, would link two like-minded liberal economies, provide economic benefits to both sides and add vigour to an already impressive commercial and strategic relationship. It would also provide the US with potential leverage over the remaining members of the EU and Brussels, with which the US has been conducting achingly slow trade negotiations for the past three years.
"As the UK starts the process of withdrawing from the EU, we stand ready to support our strong ally and friend," said Kevin Brady, the Texan who chairs the influential House ways and means committee and is pushing the idea with Orrin Hatch, the veteran Utah senator and chairman of the Senate finance committee.
"We have a special relationship, a very long tradition of working in close cooperation and a modern, updated ambitious trade agreement between the US and UK [that] will grow both economies," he said.
Such arguments are encouraging to those in the UK who campaigned for Brexit arguing that a liberated Britain would be able to negotiate better trade agreements, though it will take years of negotiations to test the thesis.
Some preliminary conversations have started. But any deal between the US and UK will probably take years to hatch. Mr Obama has just six months left in office, so any meaningful trade talks between the two countries would be the responsibility of the next administration, whether led by Mr Trump or his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.
There is a daunting tangle of uncertainties and complexities that has to be picked apart before talks can realistically begin.
The UK is not even allowed to negotiate its own trade deals while it remains a member of the EU. Then there is the question of what sort of trading relationship the government of Theresa May, prime minister, will reach with the EU, something that will define the terms of any US negotiations.
Asked last week when he thought a trade deal with the UK might materialise, Mr Brady demurred. "It is hard to know at this point because the [discussion over] the UK and the EU trading relationship is just beginning. In fact, it hasn't begun yet."
Trade deals - and globalisation in general - are hardly in political fashion in the US this election year. On the stump, both leading presidential candidates have spoken more about ripping up trade agreements than striking them.
Mr Trump wants to erect a wall at the border with Mexico and impose punitive tariffs on China. Both he and Mrs Clinton have decried another far bigger and arguably more strategically important US trade agreement negotiated by Mr Obama, the 12-country Trans-Pacific Partnership, which most mainstream Republicans support.
And yet the fact that senior Republicans in Congress are still speaking about putative pacts in a year when their party's candidate is railing against trade ought to provide some comfort to those who believe in the value of open economies. If nothing else, it is testament to the fact that there are still important people in Washington thinking beyond the current political noise.
shawn.donnan@ft.com 


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGIUM (58%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               581 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit to hit Ireland hardest   Deutsche

BYLINE: Joe Brennan

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 367 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Europe's largest investment bank sees Irish economic growth slowing down at a quicker pace than the Government and market expects next year as Brexit proves to be "more threat than opportunity". 
Deutsche Bank forecasts that Ireland's gross domestic product growth will fall to 2.9 per cent next year from 5 per cent this year. The bank also sees a threat to employment figures, following a rapid decline in the jobless rate over the past four years from a peak of 15.1 per cent to 7.8 per cent. 
"Following the UK vote to leave the EU on 23 June, we slashed our 2017 UK GDP forecast by 1.2 percentage points to 0.9 per cent," said Mark Wall, chief economist at Deutsche Bank. "As the country with the largest export exposure to the UK, Ireland is most exposed to what will be a marked drop in UK domestic demand. The risk is that the impact is greater still."
The Frankfurt-based bank's Irish economic estimate for next year compares to a consensus of 3.5 per cent among analysts. Minister for Finance Michael Noonan has signalled that the UK's decision to quit the EU probably would shave 0.5 percentage points off the Government's 3.9 per cent GDP growth forecast. 
About 40 per cent of exports from indigenous Irish firms go to the UK, compared with 10 per cent for multinational corporations, according to Deutsche Bank. As Irish companies create far more jobs, the country's employment base "is significantly more exposed" than might be expected, it said. 
The Irish labour market may also lose a traditional safety valve - the free movement of thousands of workers to the UK during economic downturns - as a result of Brexit, Deutsche says. 
With a gross figure of about 113,000 people leaving Ireland for the UK in the past six years, the Irish unemployment rate could otherwise be as much as five percentage points higher. 
It added that the ability of Ireland to poach UK foreign direct investment is "debatable", given housing constraints in Dublin and school places and underinvestment in infrastructure during the financial crisis. 
Mr Wall estimates Ireland's underlying GDP expansion last year was in the order of 5 per cent to 6 per cent, not the "eye-catching" 26 per cent reported by the CSO.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (89%); EUROPE (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               582 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, USA Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit trumps reason

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 38 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Sir, Referring to "Theresa May must now tell us what 'Brexit means Brexit' means" by Chris Giles ( Comment, July 14 ), one cannot help but think "Brexit a des raisons que la raison ne connaît pas".
Arlette Laurent
New York, NY, US


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (68%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               583 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote puts brakes on IPOs

BYLINE: Eoin Burke-Kennedy

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 297 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The value of initial public offerings (IPOs) in Europe stalled in the second quarter amid the uncertainty over Brexit.
According to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), the value of IPOs shrank by 26 per cent just under EUR 11 billion in the run-up to Britain's vote on EU membership.
The decline was even more precipitous in London, which represents about 11 per cent of European activity, where it fell 75 per cent to EUR 1.2 billion, a seven-year low.
On current trends, the value of IPO activity across Europe will be no more than EUR 25 billion by the end of the year, less than half of the EUR 57.4 billion raised by firms last year. However, PwC forecasts an increase in activity towards the end of this year and into next year.
Poor in comparison 
A breakdown of the figures in PwC's latest IPO Watch report showed activity in the second quarter, while poor in comparison to last year, almost tripled the value of funds raised in the first quarter.  
Overall, 95 European IPOs raised EUR 10.9 billion in the second quarter, compared with 50 IPOs raising EUR 3.5 billion in the previous three months.
Activity was largely driven by the continental exchanges, with over 70 per cent of second quarter proceeds raised on OMX, Euronext and Spanish exchanges. 
These exchanges benefited from a number of privatisations and spin-offs boosting their volumes, such as Dong Energy, which raised EUR 2.3 billion, ranking it as the largest IPO year-to-date globally in Copenhagen, and Dutch insurance group ASR, which raised EUR 1 billion.
There was no breakdown for activity in Ireland.
"Companies, investors and bankers are all still grappling with what the EU referendum result means for the UK economy as well as the rest of the EU," said Denis O'Connor, transactions services partner at PwC Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               584 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Brexit vote 'will not end in recession or housing crash'

BYLINE: Tom Knowles

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 212 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The economy has quickly stabilised after the European Union referendum and will not suffer a recession or a housing market crash, according to analysts at PwC.
The expected economic downturn resulting from the Brexit vote will not be "anything like as severe" as the global financial crisis of 2008, they say in a report, adding that the fall in sterling would boost exports, which should "help to moderate the large current account deficit".
PwC expects exports to deliver a 0.3 per cent contribution to economic growth by 2017, rather than the 0.2 per cent drag forecast in its economic out-look three months ago, and that this gain in net exports should "dampen the scale of the fall in overall GDP growth".
John Hawksworth, chief economist at PwC, said that the swift appointment of a new prime minister and cabinet also had helped to restore a sense of stability for businesses.
"Obviously there was a huge shock effect immediately after the referendum, but there is a sense that things have stabilised," Mr Hawksworth said. "We have very quickly got a new government in place, while the pound seems to have more or less stabilised, as have domestic shares in the FTSE 250.
"While there is clearly a negative effect on confidence, the early signs are that it is containable."


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               585 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Ireland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain after Brexit debate Red Box event, August 31

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 56 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As the fallout from Brexit continues subscribers are invited to an exclusive debate on Wednesday, August 31.
Political commentator Matthew Parris, columnist Alice Thomson, sketch writer Patrick Kidd and Red Box editor Matt Chorley will discuss the issues facing the new Prime Minister, Theresa May.
Book your tickets today at mytimesplus.co.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: Ireland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               586 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 2, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Britain after Brexit debate Red Box event, August 31

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: FEATURES; OFFERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 57 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: As the fallout from Brexit continues subscribers are invited to an exclusive debate on Wednesday, August 31. Political commentator Matthew Parris, columnist Alice Thomson, sketch writer Patrick Kidd and Red Box editor Matt Chorley will discuss the issues facing the new Prime Minister, Theresa May. Book your tickets today at www.mytimesplus.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               587 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Dealmaker of the Year is keen for May to win at Brexit negotiations

BYLINE: Francess McDonnell

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 746 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Francis Martin has a reputation as a deal maker in Northern Ireland. It is a trait that could prove useful as he takes up his latest appointment: president of the British Chambers of Commerce.
Martin is the first person from the North to be appointed president of an organisation that has been representing businesses in Northern Ireland along with the rest of the UK for more than 156 years.
The chamber is one of the most influential business voices in the UK, it represents thousands of firms which employ in the region of five million people. It has 52 accredited chambers from Ayrshire to Cornwall - not forgetting the Belfast chamber of which Martin is a former president.
It is also growing its overseas membership rapidly, and now has chambers in Chile, Poland and Turkey.
All may have issues in common but, Martin is acutely aware that each chamber and its members have their own specific concerns, not least when it comes to Brexit and the issues which have starkly divided the UK.
The chamber remained "non-partisan" in the run-up to the UK referendum although its former director general, John Longworth, was forced to resign after declaring during the campaign that, in his personal view, the UK could be "brighter" outside the European Union.
Now the decision has been taken, it is time for Martin to make sure all the voices he represents as president are heard where it matters.
Vote to remain 
He acknowledges that not all those voices are singing from the same hymn sheet - remember Scotland and Northern Ireland voted to remain in Europe while Wales and other parts of the UK voted overwhelming to leave. Even within regions, there are wildly divergent views. But Martin is confident he will give businesses the voice they need regardless of where they are located.  
"Businesses by their very nature are resilient. They are used to adapting but they also need government to take swift, co-ordinated action to stabilise markets and to provide clarity. Businesses want and need timeframes. We want to see leadership from Westminster," he says. But Martin is also conscious that many businesses and parts of the UK are still "in shock" about the Brexit decision.
"Many people genuinely believed that it would not happen and are still suffering from a kind of shock over the vote," he says. 
"These are unprecedented times when we are seeing the dismantling of structures that people have been accustomed to, in some cases all or a considerable part of their lives. 
"The ensuing market chaos, the exchange rate volatility has all contributed to the sense of anxiety and possibly fear of what the future may hold that some businesses are experiencing." But in keeping with his reputation - Martin was recently named Northern Ireland Dealmaker of the Year - he says it is also crucial that the new prime minister Theresa May gets the best deal possible for the UK in the Brexit negotiations.
New reality 
"There is a new reality and we have to work with the cards that we have been dealt and we have to move forward. We cannot talk ourselves into a recession. That would be a self-fulfilling prophecy that nobody wants.  
"We need to get the right deal with the EU, we need to see government investment in infrastructure and the right incentives in place for investment. Businesses have to plan for their future," he said.
The signal by the former chancellor George Osborne that it could introduce possible lower rates of corporation tax - to below 15 per cent - may not win it many new fans in Europe but it is likely to be the first of a series of sweeteners to encourage businesses to maintain and locate investment in the UK.
When it comes to corporation tax, Martin is mindful that, for Northern Ireland, the possibility of a lower rate in general for the UK brings a whole new set of problems.
The North is scheduled to reduce corporation tax rates to 12.8 per cent in 2018.
 If the UK goes first and brings the general rate down, this is likely to take the shine off Northern Ireland's ambitions. 
Although it may negate the impact in the North, Martin says a lower rate of corporation tax is still important to have in "Northern Ireland's tool kit".
"I've never believed it was the silver bullet for Northern Ireland. I do believe it would deliver advantages but we should not be seeking to sell Northern Ireland as a low tax economy," he says. 
"What we should be promoting, where possible, is its affordability and the skills and talent of the workforce that is available."


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); POLAND (79%); CHILE (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               588 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Discounting surges in central London homes market after EU referendum; Brexit: Property prices

BYLINE: Judith Evans, Property Correspondent

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 560 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Central London homes are undergoing a wave of discounting as sellers give up on their previous asking prices following the Brexit vote.
The number of cuts to asking prices surged 163 per cent in the 12 days in the wake of the referendum compared with the 12 days beforehand, according to figures from LonRes, a research firm.
However, the cuts have failed to stimulate sales: completions fell 18 per cent from before the referendum, and were down 43 per cent on a year earlier, in the capital's 30 most central postal districts.
The number of homes under offer also declined, dropping 32 per cent in the days after the vote, according to the figures, which are among the first to reflect the impact of the Brexit poll.
The numbers suggest the referendum has prompted vendors to concede defeat in the midst of a downturn that has affected the market in high-end London homes for at least 18 months.
"If someone needs to sell now, they are going to have to take a bit of a discount," says Anthony Payne, managing director at LonRes.
However, the price-cutting will help the market to reach a point at which buyers return to the fray after a long stand-off between buyers and sellers over pricing, Mr Payne says.
"People may come back in, thinking they are getting slightly better value for money. Whenever markets fall, there is a bite mark at which buyers say, 'at that price I am insulated from price falls'."
Across the country, surveyors have reported a marked drop in activity in the housing market since the Brexit vote , according to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Estate agents in London's wealthiest districts, where many homeowners are from overseas, have reported some prospective buyers thinking again as they worry over future visa conditions after the referendum.
But they say there has also been a surge in interest from investors whose home currencies are dollardenominated and who can benefit from the drop in sterling. The pound has shed 11 per cent against the dollar since the vote.
"We have heard that quite a number of Middle Eastern buyers have been coming back into the market," says Mr Payne.
"A lot of them are converting from dollars and together with any discount they get, the saving in the actual price is quite substantial.
"Some people are concerned by Brexit - others see it as an opportunity."
The market in luxury homes began falling when a 2014 overhaul of stamp duty made purchases of high-end property more expensive.
An extra charge on second and additional homes imposed in April worsened the gloom.
In the first quarter of this year, prices for homes priced between £2m and £5m were down 9.7 per cent from their 2014 peak and those for homes above £5m down 8 per cent, according to LonRes.
The discounting has also affected newly built homes, which are often sold before construction on deposits of 15 or 20 per cent. Buyers can pay the deposit on completion or resell to a new buyer before that date.
One owner of an "off-plan" apartment in the Riverlight development south of the Thames is looking to resell before completion for a guide price of £1.1m, below the 2013 purchase price, according to Propcision, a data company.
The vendor is advertising: "Urgent sale - asking now LOWER than original purchase price of 2013 which was £1,175,000. Due completion - NOW," according to a listing from the Onthemarket.com website.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               589 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: 'Get ready for a United Ireland'; ? Kenny wants negotiations on Brexit to leave the door open to All-Ireland EU membership ; ? Taoiseach compares Irish reunification to Germany after fall of the Berlin Wall

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 301 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Niall O'Connor Political Correspondent TAOISEACH Enda Kenny has for the first time opened the door to a future referendum on Irish unity.
In a significant move, Mr Kenny called on the European Union to prepare for the prospect of Northern Ireland seeking to join the Republic.
The Fine Gael leader said that a future border poll was now possible in light of the decision by Britain to leave the European Union.
And in a signal to the wider European community, Mr Kenny even likened the situation to that between West and East Germany after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
The Taoiseach made the remarks to reporters following his speech at the MacGill Summer School in Glenties, Donegal.
"The discussion and negotiations that take place over the next period should take into account the possibility, however far out it might be, that the clause in the Good Friday Agreement might be triggered," he said, "in that if there is a clear evidence of a majority of people wishing to leave the UK and join the Republic, that should be catered for in the discussions.
"Because if that possibility were to happen, you would have Northern Ireland wishing to leave the United Kingdom, not being a member of the European Union and joining the Republic, which will be a member of the EU."
The Taoiseach said cross-border trade links were more important in terms of volume to the North, suggesting an appetite for such a vote there.
But the decision by Mr Kenny to throw open the prospect to a border poll will set him on a collision course with the DUP.
Mr Kenny was recently left humiliated after attempts to establish an all-island forum were shot down by DUP leader and First Minister Arlene Foster.
The newly appointed Secretary of State to Northern Ireland, James Brokenshire, has also ruled out a border poll.
Full report, Pages 6&7


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               590 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Government awaits first legal opposition to Brexit in high court; Lawyers representing a British citizen bringing the case claim article 50 can only be triggered if authorised by parliament

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 600 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The first legal challenge aimed at preventing Theresa May from initiating Britain's withdrawal from the European Union will begin as lawyers seek to argue that only parliament - not the prime minister - can authorise the signing of article 50 which launches the UK's formal withdrawal process.
The case, due to be heard in the high court on Tuesday, has been brought by Deir Dos Santos, a British citizen who works as a hairdresser. He has been subjected to internet abuse since his involvement was revealed.
The politically sensitive hearing will be before two senior judges in the divisional court - the president of the Queen's Bench division, Sir Brian Leveson, and Mr Justice Cranston, who was formerly an MP and solicitor general during Tony Blair's government. It is likely to hear some opening arguments but also deal with preliminary matters such as whether a similar challenge, brought by the law firm Mishcon de Reya, will be joined together in one combined case.
Brexit supporters staged a demonstration outside the firm's London office on Thursday with a banner and placards declaring "Invoke article 50 now" and "Uphold the Brexit vote".
The Dos Santos claim argues: "The result of the referendum is not legally binding in the sense that it is advisory only and there is no obligation [on the government] to give effect to the referendum decision.
"However the [previous] prime minister has stated on numerous occasions that it is his intention to give effect to the referendum decision and organise the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union.
"The extract from [Cameron's] resignation speech... makes it clear that [the government] is of the view that the prime minister of the day has the power under article 50 (2) of the Lisbon treaty to trigger article 50 without reference to parliament." 
The government says its powers are based on the royal prerogative. 
That approach, Santos's lawyers maintain , is "ultra vires" - beyond the legitimate powers of the government - because under the UK's constitutional requirements, notification to the EU council of withdrawal "can only be given with the prior authorisation of the UK parliament".
Dominic Chambers QC, an expert in international and commercial law from Maitland Chambers in London, and Jessica Simor QC, of Matrix Chambers, are acting for Dos Santos. The London law firm Edwin Coe is coordinating the Dos Santos case. The government will be represented by James Eadie QC and Jason Copple QC. 
 Related:  Deadline approaches for government response to Brexit legal challenge
David Greene, a partner at Edwin Coe, told the Guardian that since there was no immediate threat of the government triggering article 50, a full hearing of the issues may be delayed until the autumn. "We have not received a response to our judicial review challenge," he said. Lawyers representing expatriate Britons living in France are expected to join the case. 
The majority of MPs at Westminster are in favour of Britain remaining inside the EU. Moves to hand parliament ultimate authority over article 50 have been criticised as a devious and underhand means of frustrating Brexit.
Santos's lawyers insist the legal challenge is concerned with the constitutional principle of parliamentary sovereignty rather than being engineered for a particular political outcome. Santos, it is said, is not seeking to challenge the result of the referendum, nor is he trying to halt Brexit.
Whether the majority of MPs who support remaining in the EU may now feel morally bound to vote in favour of Brexit if the issue comes to parliament is another question. 


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               591 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Hands off our staff, Foreign Office tells Brexit secretary

BYLINE: Oliver Wright

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 837 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: The Foreign Office is fighting a turf war to prevent David Davis from poaching its most experienced and talented officials for his new Brexit ministry.
Mr Davis claimed on Sunday that his new Department for Exiting the European Union would have nearly 200 new staff and that he would have the pick of "the most brilliant people" from across Whitehall to work for him.
"We've got ten people for every job so clearly fast-track civil servants see this as the place to be," he said.
Mr Davis also implicitly suggested that he would be giving orders to his fellow cabinet minister Liam Fox, the new secretary of state for international trade, when he declared that he was "not going to set Liam targets".
Senior government sources disputed Mr Davis's claims and suggested that he was facing a battle with other Whitehall departments who were determined not to cede key staff.
A government list ranking departments in order of Whitehall seniority, published yesterday, appeared to position the new Brexit ministry below the Foreign Office, Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Justice.
"The idea that Davis has complete freedom to hire whoever he wants is nonsense as anyone who knows anything about the civil service knows," one source said. "These things take months and nothing has been decided. It is just an opening gambit in a negotiation and other government departments are not going to roll over and automatically let their best staff go."
The Foreign Office is fighting a rearguard action to prevent its Europe Directorate being transferred en masse to the Brexit ministry. One source acccused Mr Davis of empire building.
Officials point out that a significant part of its work is managing bilateral relationships with other European countries not directly related to the EU. This work, they say, would be damaged if all their efforts were directed towards Brexit negotiations.
They added that although Mr Davis would take the lead in Brexit negotiations - and some staff would move over - Boris Johnson would attend the European Foreign Affairs Council and represent the country.
All three ministers may find common ground in their anger towards Theresa May, who will tell the first meeting of her cabinet today that she will not allow the country to be defined by Brexit.
The prime minister will warn each of her colleagues that she regards them all as responsible for making the best of the decision to separate from the bloc.
Downing Street appeared to scotch Mr Davis's assertion that he would oversee Dr Fox's International Trade Ministry. It said that trade deals would not fall under his remit and that Mr Davis's ministry would be responsible for the "policy work to support the UK's negotiations to leave the European Union" and "conducting negotiations in support of the prime minister" with other countries".
There were also questions over whether Mr Davis's department would be based administratively under the Cabinet Office. Some senior figures in Whitehall argue that as a department with a finite time limit it makes little sense creating a new structure that would cost millions of pounds and have to be disbanded. "Saying you're going to set up a Ministry of Brexit sounds good but the reality is more complicated," one source said. "You have to ask whether you want your most senior officials worrying about computers, office space and reporting to the National Audit Office when they should be concentrating on what will be a complicated and difficult negotiation."
How to become a negotiator Looking to see the world and make a good living? Then a career as one of the UK's post-Brexit trade negotiators could be just the thing (Jill Sherman writes).
The British civil service has no trade negotiators, because all trade deals over the past 40 years have been done by Brussels. Canada is using 800 negotiators to fine tune its trade agreements with the EU, suggesting that Whitehall will need to recruit droves of new officials.
So what should an ambitious young person do to secure a job in this booming sector? Any bright student with three As at A level in maths, English and a foreign language, preferably French or German, could make the grade, according to those in the know.
Once at university, would-be negotiators could read history, classics or PPE but a degree in international relations should be avoided. "You need a nitty-gritty grounding," said Timothy Lyons, QC, an expert in EU trade.
Playing chess, joining a debating society or a bridge club could also be good intellectual training.
A knowldege of international law, as well as World Trade Organisation and EU rules would be essential.
Graduates could go into an international company like one of the big consultancy or accountancy firms and then work their way into an EU trade position. Most would need about ten years' experience before they got to represent the UK in negotiations. But all is not lost. "Philip Hammond [the chancellor] said it would take six years to get out of Europe and he was probably being conservative," Mr Lyons said.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               592 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: I don't give a damn about Brexit, says Richards

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 163 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Laura Harding London ROLLING Stones guitarist Keith Richards has dismissed concerns about Brexit, saying he is more worried about surveillance and religion. The musician (right), who is the subject of a new BBC series about growing up in post-war Britain, said he was concerned about different powers at work in society.
He told the 'Radio Times': "I'm more interested in what other people feel about authority. There's cameras everywhere. Big Brother has arrived, and we all think it's for our own safety.
"Everybody's looking over their shoulder! There's an element of fear. And certain guys have engineered it that way. Maybe it's good to be frightened for a while, I don't know. It's a vicious world. Meanwhile, we're sitting here talking about is Britain In or Out? Personally, I don't give a damn."
The guitarist will journey back to his formative years in the hour-long film, 'Keith Richards - The Origin Of The Species', directed by punk film-maker Julien Temple for BBC Two.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               593 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Irish Independent

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, National Edition

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Ireland faces 'marked slowdown' in Brexit fallout - Deutsche Bank

BYLINE: No Author

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 630 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Colm Kelpie THE UK's vote to pull out of the European Union will result in a "marked slowdown" in Irish economic growth, Deutsche Bank has warned.
And it said there were "limits" to Dublin's capacity to take on financial services firms from London that may be looking to shift some operations in the wake of the Brexit vote.
In a note to investors, Deutsche chief economist Mark Wall also warned that the referendum result could affect Ireland's housing sector, claiming higher uncertainty and tighter conditions would likely weaken housing demand.
"There are analysts predicting outright recession in the UK.
Ireland is exposed to these risks," Deutsche said. "We expect Irish GDP growth to slow from 5pc this year to 2.9pc in 2017. This is a marked slowdown."
Deutsche also referred to the revision of Ireland's GDP rate last year from 7.8pc to an "eye catching" 26.3pc.
BREXIT REFERENDUM The surge was driven by the activities of Ireland's multinational sector, and has been dismissed by economists as a "meaningless" gauge of what is happening in the Irish economy.
It argues that a truer reflection are tax revenues, retail sales and employment growth.
Mr Wall said that one could be forgiven for thinking that Ireland could "easily shrug off its exposure to the UK" by looking at the GDP data. "This is too optimistic a point of view, in our opinion," Deutsche said.
Mr Wall described the GDP surge as "growth by acquisition", and a kind of growth more commonly associated with companies rather than sovereigns. "It points to significant weakness with GDP as a statistic to broadly represent an economy's actual income on the one hand and as an official denominator within other policy relevant statistics on the other, like the fiscal deficit and public debt to GDP ratios," he said.
"The problem cannot go unaddressed by the Commission and Eurostat."
Deustche said a range of indicators suggest the domestic economy probably expanded by between 5pc and 6pc last year.
It warned that the Irish economy is exposed to Brexit through various channels, pointing out that about 40pc of exports from domestic firms go to the UK. These firms are responsible for more than 85pc of employment, the bank said.
"To the extent that a large negative shock to UK domestic demand hurts the Irish indigenous firms the most, the Irish employment base is significantly more exposed than the 14pc of exports implies."
Brexit could threaten Ireland's housing recovery. The bank said housing demand could weaken further if Brexit threatens jobs, given that so many small firms in Ireland export to the UK. "Banks are likely to be even more cautious with their provision of mortgage finance and if incomes are under threat, the still elevated level of debt could suppress demand," Mr Wall said. Dublin's capacity to take advantage of the dislocation from London of financial services firms has "limits".
Mr Wall said that if the common travel area between Ireland and the UK can be retained, then Ireland will be an appealing destination for firms relocating elements of their business from London. But infrastructural gaps could hinder Dublin's ability to benefit, Deutsche suggests. "A decision to relocate will depend on a range of factors. Commercially, the fit requires a range of other business services being available, from sufficiently well developed global accounting, tax, legal and business services industries.
"Non-commercially, it depends on factors such as availability of housing, school places, etc. Dublin's non-commercial capacity and infrastructure is suffering from under-investment after the financial crisis." Deutsche also warned that political instability at home could also pose problems. And it said that an adverse finding from Europe in the Apple case "could affect attractiveness".


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); National Edition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               594 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Irish Times

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Kenny says Border poll should be considered; Taoiseach says poll on reunification should be part of Brexit negotiations

BYLINE: Pat Leahy

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS:  Taoiseach Enda Kenny has said the prospect of a future Border poll on the reunification of Ireland should be included as part of the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom on the Britain's departure from the bloc.
Speaking at the MacGill summer school in Glenties Co Donegal last night, Mr Kenny departed from his prepared script to raise the prospect of a border poll at some point in the future. 
However, he stressed that the conditions for such a vote did not exist at present, and he did not favour a vote at present.
He compared the possibility of the North joining the Republic, and immediately becoming part of the EU, to the reunification of Germany in 1990. 
Mr Kenny said that the EU-UK negotiations should take account of the possibility. 
'Far out' 
On Sunday night at MacGill, Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin also raised the prospect of a future Border poll, although he also stressed that there was little prospect for a vote in the near future.  
Sinn Féin has increased its campaigning for a Border poll in the wake of the British referendum, in which the North voted to remain in the EU.
Later, the Taoiseach told reporters that the coming negotiations should examine the possibility.
"The discussions and the negotiations that take place over the next period should take into account the possibility, however far out it may be, that the clause in the Good Friday agreement may be triggered, in that, if there is clear evidence of a majority of people wishing to leave the United Kingdom and join the Republic, that that should be catered for in the discussions that take place," Mr Kenny said.
'Tortuous process' 
"In the same way as East Germany was dealt with when the wall came down - was able to be absorbed into West Germany and not to have a tortuous and long process applying for membership of the European Union.  
"Who knows what may happen in the time ahead? I'm just making the point that these are the kind of things that should be looked at in the broadest of ways."
Asked if such an eventuality could actually happen, the Taoiseach implied it was possible. 
"Well, people said it would be impossible that Britain would leave the European Union," he said.
"In the context of discussions that will take place about the future - about the connections between the Republic and Northern Ireland, between Northern Ireland, the UK and the EU, and our relationship with both - these are things that should be looked at in the context of, they might happen at some time in the future."
Mr Kenny was warmly received by a large audience in the Highland Hotel which was in contrast to a previous visit during his first period as Taoiseach, when protesters could be heard outside. 


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (73%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               595 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Let's leave behind the old ideas about Brexit; Ignore the naysayers: it is possible for Scotland and Northern Ireland to remain in the EU

BYLINE: Andrew Wilson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 902 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Travel, they say, broadens the mind and this is undoubtedly true. But travelling with my three children, all aged under 11, has focused my mind instead.
We are in Mallorca and each day is a logistical and diplomatic endeavour to maintain the equilibrium.
Ours is a family union of four independent parts, as equal in voice as they are unequal in scale. Each has their own idea of what the present and future ought to look like and the visions don't always align.
So dad's focus is essentially handling the logistics of supply, medical attention, risk management, peacekeeping, entertainment and - of course - finance. Would you say I think too much about business and government? This is no complaint; it is a rare privilege to be a dad but getting any time for reflection is nigh on impossible. Yet in the snatched moments I have enjoyed, two very different pieces of work have impressed me as I monitor the fray of debate and analysis back home in the UK.
One is the work of an Irish American academic, the other of a former British diplomat and adviser to three former prime ministers.
The news remains fast paced and most analysis of the implications of the Brexit vote struggles to keep up.
On the one hand we are told that all bets are off and all options are on the table. Then a moment later another voice says Scotland has no chance, "it just won't work".
Any idea of a tailored solution for Scotland and Northern Ireland is, according to one cabinet minister, one minute "fanciful", while the next minute the prime minister is flying to Edinburgh to apparently offer Nicola Sturgeon the whip hand. And in doing so, according to some, she outmanoeuvred the potential partner she handed the whip to. Phew.
Exhausted trying to keep up? So am I. The debates about debates are tedious. They are too often designed to close minds and restrict ambition at a time when we need the opposite. Which brings me to the two pieces of work that are worthy of inspection. The first is the book Naked Diplomacy, published last month by Tom Fletcher, who was the youngest UK ambassador to be appointed in 200 years when he was sent to Beirut in 2011, aged 36.
It is a thoughtful case for the power of diplomacy in the digital age. It should be considered by all who care about how the UK and all its constituent parts traverse the challenges and opportunities of the moment.
This paragraph alone leapt out to me as speaking directly to the spirit of how we must collectively face the moment from a UK or a Scottish perspective, whatever your hopes for the future. "The diplomats who manage empires aren't the people who build them. They are preceded by traders, explorers, innovators. The great civilisations were all built on great start-ups. Countries succeed when they have a magnetic quality, and an openness to the world around them, when they invest more in bridges than in walls. When their world view is formed by having actually viewed the world."
Amen to every word, in sentiment and in detail. Who could not sign up to this vision for any country we would want to be part of? A manifesto in miniature to lift our spirits, help us to believe that all things are possible and encourage us to engage with a big, changing and often frightening world.
Our small corner of it is packed with those hellbent on assuring us that nothing is doable or changeable. Many of us are guilty of such a mindset. But that is not what made the best of the modern world possible.
It's time to rediscover the pioneering spirit at home and in forging partnerships. Time, in the words of Fletcher, in a Twitter exchange with me, "to lose the national flinch", or what in Scotland we have for decades called the "cringe". Now is indeed that hour.
The other piece of work is the Dalriada Document written by Brendan O'Leary of the University of Pennsylvania for the Centre on Constitutional Change. The title speaks to the historical links between Scotland and Northern Ireland and the old Irish-speaking polity that took in parts of both.
However, that title is just for fun. The detail of what he sets out is a clear-headed analysis of why respecting the result in Northern Ireland and Scotland, as well as England and Wales, could be a necessary condition for preserving the UK. He also clearly sets out why, if the political will is there within the UK and the EU, it is possible in every sense.
A few words of summary can't do it justice here. The core idea behind his compromise is very simple: "Each mandate in each territory expressed in the referendum of 2016 should be respected, but without breaking up either of the two unions of the United Kingdom, or Gibraltar's ties to the UK." He sets out how England and Wales would then leave the EU and what would be needed to maintain membership for Scotland and Northern Ireland. So "Brexit" occurs without Scotland, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar.
Those who dismiss the idea out of hand, believing it cannot be done could have their minds opened by reading this.
If we can learn one thing from the experiences of the past few years it is that we should turn a deaf ear to the hollow echo of the vested interests of the status quo, of how things are done now. They have failed us on a monumental and intergenerational scale.
Our focus should be on imagining the best possible outcomes and giving them all a chance to get out of the national flinch.
Countries succeed when they invest in bridges, not walls


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (76%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (55%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               596 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: L&G cuts Brexit discount on UK property fund; Financials

BYLINE: Judith Evans, Property Correspondent

SECTION: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 517 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Legal & General has reduced the discount imposed on cash withdrawals from its £2.4bn UK property fund, in a positive sign for a real estate market that has faced a turbulent three weeks since the UK's vote to leave the EU.
L&G had imposed a "fair value adjustment" of 15 per cent on its property fund as investors sought to withdraw cash after the EU referendum , meaning those wanting to redeem their shares would face a price cut. But it reduced that discount to 10 per cent yesterday, saying: "While it remains difficult to predict the exact impact of the vote to leave on commercial property values, conditions in the market and within our peer group have begun to stabilise."
Seven of L&G's peers were forced to suspend redemptions in the wake of the Brexit vote as investors rushed for the exit, demanding their cash back faster than the funds could sell buildings.
One of these, Aberdeen Asset Management, has since reopened its UK property fund for trading. It is, however, imposing a total markdown of 26 per cent on investors wanting to redeem, comprising a "quick sale" price adjustment plus a sales cost and "fair value" reduction.
Aberdeen's fund on Friday completed the first sale of a property marketed in the aftermath of the vote, selling a building at 355-361 Oxford Street in London to Norges Bank Real Estate Management for £124m.
This was lower than a reported asking price of £145m, but still represents a capital gain from the £76m it paid in 2011 for the building, whose main tenant is the chemist Boots.
Aberdeen is also selling properties such as 10 Hammersmith Grove, the UK headquarters of Fox International, a division of 21st Century Fox, and BT's National Distribution Centre at Magna Park in Lutterworth, Leicestershire.
The so-called fund gatings had prompted worries that fire sales of assets would bring down prices across the commercial property sector, as happened during the 2008 financial crisis.
But while some property sales since the referendum have reflected discounts, others have shown little shift from pre-Brexit pricing. For instance, British Land, the listed property company, completed a sale of Debenhams' flagship building in Oxford Street for £400m or a yield of 2.75 per cent for the buyer, a private investor.
Wells Fargo, the US bank, bought a new City of London headquarters that remains under development for £300m, the developer HB Reavis said yesterday.
Observers remain concerned that commercial property values will drop: analysts at Société Générale predicted a 25 per cent fall from their peak.
Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at the retail fund broker Hargreaves Lansdown, cautioned: "It's a risky business buying or selling property funds at the moment, while prices are bouncing around so much without any warning, and may turn out not to be truly reflective of the underlying market."
Like others, L&G has shifted to weekly valuations to keep pace with market changes. It said: "Our move to more frequent, weekly valuations ensures that we have up to date information and we intend to unwind fair value pricing as soon as markets normalise further."


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GB United Kingdom; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               597 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: Financial Times (London, England)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, London Edition 1

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: May to visit Germany for talks with Merkel; Brexit foreign policy

BYLINE: George Parker and Mark Odell

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Theresa May will travel to Berlin tomorrow for talks with German chancellor Angela Merkel, as she uses her first overseas trip as prime minister to launch a post-Brexit foreign policy in Europe.
Mrs May will also meet François Hollande, French president, in Paris on Thursday, in a sign of her determination to calm tensions with European leaders after the Brexit vote.
Tomorrow, Mrs May will tell her first cabinet that every minister is expected to "make Brexit work for Britain". She will tell them: "Brexit means Brexit - and we're going to make a success of it."
Downing Street confirmed that Brexit would be discussed in Berlin and Paris later this week, though EU leaders have vowed not to begin exit negotiations until Mrs May invokes Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty. The prime minister says that is unlikely until next year, but in the meantime she wants to gauge attitudes in Europe on the Brexit question and to start the talks on the best footing.
The German chancellor will host a dinner for Mrs May in a meeting of the two most powerful female leaders - both are daughters of clergymen and have a similarly unflashy style.
Ms Merkel has urged patience with the UK in the face of demands from other EU states, including France, that Britain should trigger Article 50 as soon as possible. But she has taken a tough stance on any Brexit negotiations, warning the UK that if it wants to retain access to the single market it will have to accept freedom of movement.
Mrs May is expected to offer Mr Hollande full British defence and security co-operation to tackle terrorism as she tries to stress common interests between Britain and France. But Mr Hollande, who faces elections next year, wants to make it clear Britain will pay a price for leaving the EU, in order to fend off rising Euroscepticism in his country.
Marine Le Pen, leader of the National Front, who is expected to qualify for the second round of the presidential election, is set to campaign for Frexit.
Meanwhile, Downing Street formally published the line-up of Mrs May's government , which is traditionally parsed for the "pecking order" in which ministers are listed.
Philip Hammond, the new chancellor, is second on the list ahead of Amber Rudd, home secretary, and then Boris Johnson, foreign secretary. Downing Street said it was not clear yet whether Mr Hammond would deputise at prime minister's questions when Mrs May was away.
The new cabinet has 22 full members of whom eight are women; David Cameron had seven female ministers in his top team.
Meanwhile, Mrs May's allocation of "grace and favour" homes to her top team suggested an advanced sense of humour. Mr Johnson will share Chevening, a 17th-century mansion in Kent, with David Davis, the Brexit secretary, and Liam Fox, the international trade secretary.
"It reflects the fact that all those secretaries of state will, as part of their work, be meeting and engaging with and hosting foreign visitors and leaders and it will provide an opportunity to do that," Mrs May's spokesman said.
The three ministers have strong personalities and are not personally close, prompting jokes at Westminster that the prime minister had created the set for a taxpayer-funded sitcom.
Letters page 12 Comment page 13


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FR France; DE Germany; XG Europe; XJ Western Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               598 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: No EU exit for us, say Italy's on-the-rise Eurosceptics; Even the Five Star Movement is committed to EU membership in a country where Brexit is widely seen as a mistake

BYLINE: Rosie Scammell in Rome

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1026 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Italians have looked aghast at the outcome of the Brexit vote, shocked by the rapid fall of political leaders in a nation previously admired for stability and common sense.
Dire economic performance in the bel paese (beautiful country) has seen hundreds of thousands of Italians move to the UK, which was until recently held up as an example of how a nation should be run.
But in the post-referendum era, Brits in Italy receive sympathetic looks as concerned locals seek to understand how UK voters could have made such a drastic choice. "It's a mistake for them," says Luca Miccinilli, a shop worker in central Rome. "Maybe they never really felt European."
His sentiment is echoed at a nearby coffee bar, where Brexit is described variously as a disaster, an erroneous choice, an irrational decision. "I think it was a mistake, Europe's already in difficulty," remarks Simona Barnocchi at the counter. "They had less difficulty than us, because they had their own bank. Our economy isn't going well," she remarks as euros are dropped into the till.
Italy was one of the EU's founding members and the union's flag flutters atop state buildings nationwide. But Brussels is certainly not viewed with great affection. The failure of Europe to respond adequately to refugees and migrants arriving on Italian shores, coupled with constant negotiations over the country's finances, has led to a sense of bitterness among many Italians.
 Related:  Italy's Five Star Movement now has to translate protest into problem-solving | Francesco Grillo
But the suggestion Italy might follow in the UK's footsteps is broadly viewed as preposterous, with a post-Brexit poll finding that two thirds of Italians would vote to remain in the event of a referendum.
The outcome of the British vote was celebrated by the leader of the far-right Northern League, Matteo Salvini, who called for Italy to hold its own vote. But his party has lost support in recent weeks, with one poll showing just 12.4% of voters would back it.
The more significant rise has been that of the Eurosceptic Five Star Movement (M5S), an anti-establishment party founded by comedian Beppe Grillo. The M5S won a quarter of the national vote in 2013 and last month clinched the mayoral seats in Rome and Turin. Polls now show it has 30.6% of the vote, above the ruling Democratic party's 29.8%.
Luigi Di Maio, the deputy speaker of the Italian parliament, has emerged as the most likely figure to lead the M5S at the next general election. He is critical of Brussels, but says the EU has become a scapegoat. "It was very often used by Italian politics as an alibi, it's not guilty of everything it has been blamed for," he told the Guardian.
But he still saw failings. "It's an EU which has decided to abdicate from its role of protecting the internal market and protecting its citizens," he said.
Despite its Euroscepticism, the M5S is committed to EU membership, although it has called for a national referendum on the euro. "A referendum which asks citizens if they want to remain in the euro, if they want to go in another direction, renegotiate the euro, or return to the lira," says Di Maio.
Such a vote would not be legally binding and the Italian government has not backed the idea. While Italians often complain that joining the single currency made them poorer, others are wary of the financial impact of returning to the lira.
Marco Bertolini, an architect in Rome, counts out snacks at the coffee bar to demonstrate the economics of switching currencies. "For those who understand finance, if the lira were to come back, we would pay double," he says. "It's not convincing, it's not right."
Although the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, does not have an EU vote to worry about, he has put his career on the line by calling a different referendum in October. Italians are being asked to give the green light to the premier's package of reforms, an attempt to streamline the political system, which are opposed by the M5S.
 Related:  Don't vote remain for us Europeans - do it for yourselves | Matteo Renzi
Renzi has promised to resign if he loses this autumn and early elections could follow. Arianna Montanari, a professor at Rome's La Sapienza University, is however cautious of predicting that the M5S will soon govern Italy, believing a temporary government could be installed without a public vote if Renzi did stand down.
"It also depends on how Rome works; it seems like it's not going so well," she said of Rome's new M5S mayor, Virginia Raggi, whose unenviable to-do list includes getting basic services such as rubbish collection to function properly.
An M5S government led by the young Di Maio, who turned 30 this month, would be a remarkable transformation of Italian politics. But the de-facto party leader is adamant that a vote for the M5S would not lead to a break with the EU: "In the throngs of Brexit, some have begun to speak of 'Italexit'. But no one talked about this before."
Di Maio is instead optimistic that Brexit could benefit Italy, suggesting it could attract businesses leaving London and looking for a new European hub. "Italy could have a kind of recruitment drive, with taxation that allows companies that are there and want to come to Italy and contribute to the economic development of this country," he says.
Milan, Italy's financial capital, is best positioned to benefit from such a situation. "Milan has a number of advantages. The fact is that for the family of a banker in London, moving to Frankfurt would not be exciting," said Francesco Giavazzi, a professor at Bocconi University in Milan. But he notes Brexit could see Italian imports to the UK fall, as they become more expensive, and so Italy does not stand to gain hugely in financial terms.
The ongoing fallout from the UK referendum will continue to spark intense debate about Italy's own relationship with Europe. So far, despite constant criticism of the EU's monetary policy, a strong sense of European identity is outweighing any will to leave the union.
"I think that the original project was the right one. A political union and a sense of community. We must return to the European community," says Di Maio.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%); ITALY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               599 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Times (London)

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday, Edition 1, Scotland

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Osborne: I was right to warn about Brexit but all is not lost

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 469 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: George Osborne has defended his referendum campaign predictions about the apocalyptic impact of Brexit - even as he insisted that Britain's best days now lay ahead of it.
In his first public statement since being dismissed last Wednesday, he launched a passionate defence of his six years as chancellor, including his use of the Treasury to warn of the potential Brexit fallout. "I put everything on the line, and don't regret for a moment that I did," he said - a defiant message to those Tory MPs who believe he went too far in the referendum campaign.
However, the former chancellor promised to support Mrs May, saying she had the "strength and integrity" to do the job, and praised Philip Hammond as the person he would most like to see in No 11, after himself.
Using the Margaret Thatcher Lecture to the Centre for Policy Studies, he staked out the economic and social legacy of his and David Cameron's time in office. He served notice too that he would fight hard to ensure that Mrs May continued to spread power and economic opportunities to the north of England. "I remain passionately committed to the Northern Powerhouse, and I won't let go of that," he said.
He vowed to do all he could to ensure that devolving power to local authorities, and ensuring regions outside London had sufficient infrastructure to realise their full potential, "continues to be a priority".
Mr Hammond had a "tough job", but Mr Osborne added: "He will make his own judgments, and he will have my full backing as he does so," referring to his successor's decision to abandon the target of clearing the nation's deficit by the end of the decade.
He said he had carried out the most sustained reduction in the size of government, allowing a record surge of jobs and businesses to "fill the gap left by the shrinking public sector". Defending his fight to cut the deficit, he said: "We were going to create the conditions for a private sector recovery. And the first condition for that is fiscal stability: business can't invest or hire or grow if they think that the country will not be able to pay its way in the world."
He conceded that he had let his plans drift for fear of crippling the economy. "We were always flexible, and the rules allowed for that. True to conservatism, we were practical, not doctrinaire."
He declared himself an optimist about Brexit, despite his gloomy warnings. He called on the government to be more outward looking and "play all the cards it's got", seeking "the closest possible ties with our European neighbours". "You can see [Brexit] either as Britain retreating on itself or you can take it as a message that Britain will be more outward facing - and that is the Britain I will be fighting for. Mrs Thatcher was an optimist. She believed Britain's best days lay ahead. I am an optimist and so do I."


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (78%); Scotland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                               600 of 600 DOCUMENTS

PUBLICATION-NAME: The Guardian

PUBLICATION-WRITTEN-DATE: July 19, 2016 Tuesday 7:13 AM GMT

PUBLICATION-HEADLINE: Public procurement needs urgent reform in the wake of Brexit; Public sector finance will be hit by the EU referendum but there are still huge untapped savings opportunities across the NHS and local government

BYLINE: Colin Cram

SECTION: PUBLIC LEADERS NETWORK

LENGTH: 655 words

ARTICLE-CONTENTS: Public sector finances have just got worse. Since the EU referendum the pound has dropped 10% against the euro and the dollar. This means the cost of imports will rise. The NHS will be particularly badly hit because many of its purchases are from overseas businesses, but all parts of the public sector need to look at their procurement processes. 
Now is the moment to make them as efficient as possible or price increases could swallow up most of the purchasing savings that the NHS and other parts of the public sector are trying to make to put more money into frontline services, including patient care. 
The recommendations by Lord Carter [pdf], from which the current NHS procurement strategy is derived, are inadequate for today's challenges. 
Fortunately, there are still some huge untapped savings opportunities that have not been exploited. For example, falls cost the NHS £2bn a year [pdf]. NHS Shared Business Service has introduced a technology in the Salford Royal Foundation Trust that can reduce patient falls by up to 57%. 
 Another example is the Countess of Chester Hospital, where the commercial procurement team has introduced a light therapy sleep mask to tackle progressive blindness caused by diabetes and macular degeneration. It is claimed that it could save the NHS up to £1bn a year. The benefits to patients from both these initiatives would be huge.
 Related:  The impact of Brexit on UK's £200bn public procurement spend
One might expect every NHS trust to scramble to adopt these opportunities. However, the opposite is the case. Businesses tell me that selling to the NHS is a nightmare. Even when a product is approved, is on a purchasing agreement and the savings and patient benefits are huge, they still have to attempt to persuade each hospital, one by one, to adopt it. Small- to medium-sized businesses cannot afford to do this. Several have told me that they are giving up on the NHS and are looking to the growing market in south-east Asia.
However, these issues are not confined to the NHS, as the communities and local government inquiry into procurement observed in 2014 [pdf], though NHS trusts may be the most reluctant to adopt initiatives proven in other trusts. 
There are many other excellent initiatives by suppliers, people working in the public sector and sometimes the public. How much could the NHS save if such initiatives were quickly rolled out nationally throughout the relevant parts of the public sector?
There are a number of problems suppliers face. First, procurement people focus on reducing purchase prices rather than looking at the bigger picture of what delivers lowest cost for their organisation. Second, suppliers cannot get to see the relevant people, eg budget holders and clinicians. Third, the fragmented purchasing structure of the public sector turns the adoption of new products into a postcode lottery. 
                   There are answers                    
Create a body, possibly within the Crown Commercial Service, to receive and quickly evaluate initiatives submitted to it, no matter from whom they originate and whether or not technology is involved. It must assess which should be applied regionally or nationally and in which sectors, and mandate a programme to implement some and strongly recommend others.
Encourage further innovation through financial rewards for public sector staff and the public whose initiatives are accepted.
Create a taskforce to support implementation in organisations that lack the capability.
Get rid of the postcode lottery. The creation of an integrated public sector procurement organisation is long overdue.
                     Talk to us on Twitter via                                            @Guardianpublic and                                            sign up                      for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.                   


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-SOURCE-COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (64%)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


